

Copyright 2021 Ashley Heart 
Published by Ashley Heart at Smashwords



Smashwords Edition License Notes
This ebook is licensed for your personal enjoyment only.  This ebook may not be re-sold or given away to other people.  If you would like to share this book with another person, please purchase an additional copy for each recipient.  If you’re reading this book and did not purchase it, or it was not purchased for your enjoyment only, then please return to Smashwords.com or your favorite retailer and purchase your own copy.  Thank you for respecting the hard work of this author.




Having a felony on your record isn't the best way to start out in life, but for Christian Fox, it's a reality. 
 After spending nearly two years behind bars for a crime he committed to protect his sister, Christian is finally free to begin to rebuild his life.  The only problem is, everything he left behind is still waiting for him.  Even a few things that he never considered. Specially one woman, who will change everything he thought he really wanted	

Prologue


Christian

Six years earlier...

Every time she snaps her gum, cotton candy fills the air. I'm not sure
why I'm staring at her lips right now. Well, she is talking. That could
be a good excuse, right? 2

That won't work though. What I really need is a distraction. I shouldn't
be sitting on the roof of my best friends' garage with his little sister
smoking Newports past her curfew. But that's the thing about me I guess.
I don't always make the best decisions. 

Her brother Blake and I never really talked about it, but it was always
pretty much a given that his sister Bella was off-limits to us. That
includes our other friend, Walker. If I'm really being honest though, I
kind of think they have a thing going on. No solid proof, but a strong
suspicion. The three of us are more like brothers than friends, and Bella
fits in right along with us. The perfect addition to our group and with
very limited girl drama to bring with her. That's a win in my book. I
even insist on calling her by her last name. I think it's because it
solidifies the fact that she's basically a dude to me. But tonight, she
doesn't look like a dude.4

 Not. At. All.

She hands the cigarette back to me and I take a long drag. Her curious
pale, blue eyes watch me the entire time, but I keep staring forward.
She's waiting for a response. My primary goal in coming here was to
forget about my recent break-up with my on and off again girlfriend,
Jacob. This is probably the fiftieth time she left me in the two years
that we've been together. Evidently, at the tender age of seventeen, I'm
supposed to have my shit together. Or so she says. Bella thinks Jacob is
an evil whore and I should just move on already. Easier said than done.

I catch Bella playing with her hair out of the corner of my eye. She
smoothes out the edges of the dyed jet black strands and then lets it
fall back on her shoulders. I laugh, nudging her slightly.2

"Are you waiting for me to respond to that?" I cock my head to her and
she tucks her hair behind her ears.

"You asked what I think you should do about Jacob, and I told you." She
steals the cigarette back and shrugs. "It's up to you what you choose to
do with my amazing girl knowledge."

I laugh again. "Amazing girl knowledge? Please, Bishop. What do you
really fucking know about relationships anyway?"1

My words cause her to tense at my side. Her nose scrunches up and her
cheeks flush red.

"You're a dick, Christian. I take back what I said." She turns and faces me
full-on. "You deserve to be treated like shit."1

She pushes up on her palms to stand and I grab her wrist with a sigh.
"Listen, I'm sorry okay? I'm acting like a fucking asshole."

The tension is her arm subsides and she sits back down. When she looks
over at me expectantly, I light another cigarette. I watch the smoke
billow out over the rooftop for a moment before I speak.

"I'm tired of feeling this way with her." I laugh bitterly. "The fucked
up thing is, I really fucking love her.2

Bella rolls her eyes. "You like the way she looks. There's no possible
way you could like her for her personality."

I take another drag, ignoring her assumption altogether. The simple fact
is, I like Jacob for a different reason. Even though every curve of her
body is banging, and truth be told, I could never turn down a blonde
with a bitchy attitude, that's still not what draws me to her. Despite
how fucking annoying her nagging and complaining tends to be, she makes
me want to be better. Pleasing Jacob has basically been a full-time job,
and lately, I haven't been doing pretty good at it.1

Bella sighs dramatically. "Okay, you big cry baby. I'm sorry for not
being more sensitive to your feelings."

I arch an eyebrow and she giggles, shoving me in the arm. I sway to the
side and keep the look of irritation on my face. It's not real, but she
doesn't know that. I actually like when she messes with me, it makes me
feel better for not having the balls to stand up to a hundred and
ten-pound girl with obvious daddy issues.

Bella's expression turns more serious as she clasps her hands in her lap.
"You want to know what I really think?"

I nod.

She looks up at me through her thick eyelashes and holds my stare. "I
think Jacob tries to make you into something that you're not and I for
one, don't like that. I like the person that you are and fuck her if she
thinks you should change."4

I let out a whistle. "Well, fuck. I didn't realize you thought so highly
of me."

She rolls her eyes again, but then she smiles. It lights up her entire
face and for a second I forget what I'm upset about. For a brief moment
sitting up here on this roof makes me feel normal. I don't have to worry
about all the ways I disappoint my father on a daily basis, or be
hounded about college from Jacob. Right now I feel perfect and I know
exactly what I'm going to do. 

Fuck it up like everything else.1




Later that night, the rain is pouring down outside the sliding glass
doors to my back porch. I've been staring out into the darkness for so
long I think for a moment I might be seeing things. But sure enough,
right on cue, Jacob appears tapping on the glass. Her clothes are soaked
from the rain and her hair is clinging to her face.

For a moment I consider leaving her out there, but I could never do
that. I grit my teeth and stand up from my chair to let her in. Before I
can even slide the door all the way back she throws her arms around my
neck. Her entire body is shaking, but I can't tell if it's from the
cold, or the tears that are inevitably falling down her cheeks. I
prepare myself for the speech that's about to come.

"I'm so sorry, Christian," she chokes out between sobs. She looks up at me
with mascara running down her face. "I don't know why I keep doing this.
I hate this so much right now."

I don't know why she keeps doing this either, but then again I'm not the
one ending our relationship every other week.

With a heavy sigh, I pull her the rest of the way inside. After
shrugging off my hoodie, I drape it over her shoulders and run my hands
down her arms. 

"I can't keep doing this, Jacob." 2

Her eyes flick up to mine and if I were smart, I would look away. But,
I'm not smart.

"I know," she whispers, wiping the black smudges from under her eyes.
She leans into me again and wraps her arms around my waist. "I love you.
I only want to be with you."

Every part of me is screaming to tell her to get fucking lost, but I
don't. Honestly, I don't think I ever will. For as long as Jacob keeps
coming back, I'm going to let her. She knows it as well as I do and I
don't think that will ever change.

"I know, baby," I say, my voice heavy. I kiss her temple and rest my
chin on the top of her head. "I love you, too."

Her grip tightens around me and just like that, Jacob owns me again. She
always does. She tortures every piece of my tattered soul with the
promise of forever but she never really gives it to me. So I wait. Until
the day she finally does
























Chapter 1 l Wish You Were Here



Christian

Present Day...

Staring at the small box, my hand begins to shake in anger. I don't have
a choice not to check it. I grip the pen so tight the tips of my fingers
turn white as the words taunt me.

#14. Have you ever committed a felony? If so, explain below. 

Really? Like explaining why I did it is going to make any fucking
difference. The short answer—I'm not getting the job. With a frustrated
grunt I throw the pen across the room and crumble the paper in my hands.
This earns me a sideways glance from Rob, the other mechanic I work with
at my dad's auto dealership, as he walks into the break room.

"Tough day already?" he remarks with a smirk while pouring a cup of
coffee.

I force a smile. "Nope, everything's perfect." After stepping around
him, I stomp into the parking lot for a smoke. Granted, I've only been
at work for about thirty minutes, but when your dad is the boss you tend
to stretch the boundaries a little. In my case, I stretch them a lot.3

Just as I'm taking the first drag, I hear a familiar voice behind me.

"Working hard, eh son?"

I close my eyes tight and release an angry breath through my nose. When
I turn around he's adjusting his tie and waiting for a response.

"What's with you people today? Can't a guy just take minute to himself?
Fuck."

My father raises an eyebrow. "Geez, what's your problem?"

"I don't have a problem."

His expression softens a little. "Is this about Jacob?"2

My nostrils flare. I saw the engagement announcement this morning while
looking for jobs I'll never get. "No, it's not about her."

"You sure?" he pries, stepping closer. "It's okay if it is. You two were
together for a long time and I always thought you would end up together."

Clenching my jaw like a vice grip, I hold my tongue. Instead, I take
another drag. The look of disgust is evident on his face. He never did
like this habit of mine. Actually, he never likes anything that I do.4

I swallow hard. "Yeah, well things change."

His warm brown eyes squint into the sunlight for a moment before
directing back down at me. "Is this about Walker's memorial..."

That's when I lose it. I toss my cigarette to the ground in anger.
"Jesus, dad. What are you trying to do here?"1

He shakes his head quickly, clearly affected by my mounting rage. "I
didn't mean anything. I'm just trying to figure out what your problem is
lately."

I throw my arms out. "I don't have a problem, okay?" I let them fall
against my sides and then motion to the back door. "Can I get back to
work now or do you want to continue to list all of the things that are
fucked up in my life right now?"

He takes a minute to compose himself, and speaks in a softer tone. "It
would be nice if you expressed an emotion other than anger for once.
It's like I don't even know you anymore."

This causes me to laugh. "You never fucking did." I don't wait for his
reply before I stalk in the back entrance and slam the door behind me.
Seven monotonous hours later, I trade in my shop clothes for a worn pair
of jeans and a black t-shirt. The weather in New Haven has been holding
out and I'm about to take advantage of it. I recently got my license
back, so the withdraw I had from my Harley can finally be over. After
making a lap around town, I ride down my friend Austin's street. I see
him dicking around in the driveway, so I pull in.

He grins over at me with a backwards cap and a cigarette hanging out of
the side of his mouth. "Hey, man," he calls to me as I'm shutting off
the bike. "You looking for trouble?" he teases.2

I laugh, walking over to him and lighting a cigarette of my own.
"Always, man." I nod to the car he's standing next to. Parts are strewn
across the driveway and his hands are black with grease. "Need some help?"2

He smiles. "That would be awesome." He scratches his head, looking under
the hood as he speaks. "I can't figure it out. It won't turn over."

"Let me take a look," I offer, stepping around him. I lean over the
engine and see the problem almost immediately. He's lucky I'm here. He
was way off.

Not even twenty minutes later, the car runs great and we're celebrating
by sitting on his porch drinking beer. I can't think of a better way to
end a Monday.

I catch him glancing over at me a couple times but he doesn't say
anything. Austin has been a good friend since high school, not as close
as Blake and Walker were, but a decent friend nonetheless. Honestly,
he's one of the only ones I have left.2

"Go ahead and say it," I say, taking a long pull of my beer. I look over
at him and he presses his lips into a hard line. He stares down at his
can for a moment before he speaks.

"You going on Saturday?"

I swallow the lump in my throat. I haven't even gotten the courage to
talk to Bella yet, how can I possibly show up at her husband's memorial
service?2

Instead of answering, I shake my head.

"I think you should."

My leg starts to bounce as emotions I don't want to feel start to surge
through me. It hits me in waves. Right about the time I stop thinking
about it, I start thinking about it again.

"I know."

His eyebrows pull in. "You know?" He leans forward in his chair beside
me. "Christian, he was your best friend. Regardless of how things were left,
you have to go."

My jaw starts to tick and I tilt back the rest of my beer. "Why did she
wait so long anyway? It's been six months."

Austin shrugs. "I don't know. It was hard for her...for everybody. I
think she just needed time." He pauses, looking off in the yard at
nothing in particular. "The funeral was pretty brutal. It always sucks
to lose someone that young, but it was so unexpected. And after
Blake...well, let's just say Bella has been struggling."5

As soon as he says her name I get that familiar squeezing in my chest.
Sometimes when I think about her it hurts so much I can barely breathe.
The guilt I live with on a daily basis consumes me. It's my fault Walker
died. Maybe not directly, but the shit he was into started with us. I
wish he was smart enough not to keep doing it on his own. God, I fucking
miss that asshole so much right now.

Austin stands up from his chair and waves his empty can at me. "I need
another. You want one?"

"No," I say, standing as well. "I need to get going."


Story continues below

"Okay, then." He looks unsure for a moment and then places his hand on
my shoulder. "Think about it, alright? You'll regret it if you don't go."

All I can do is nod. I know he's right, but I'm not about to sit and
explain all of the reasons I feel like I can't. There's only one person
who knows how deep we all fell, and we don't even talk anymore.2



The next day, I find myself driving down a familiar street. It's raining
today, so I stole—or I mean, borrowed a car from my dad. As I pull along
the curb the letters of the sign above the shop make my breath catch in
my throat. Bishop's is spelled out in intricate Old English letters
above the tattoo parlor Walker owned with Bella. Although when they got
married, Bella was no longer a Bishop, they wanted to do something to pay
homage to Blake. The simple fact is, she'll always be Bishop to me.

I reach into my pocket and pull the photo out I have stuffed in my
wallet. It's folded in fours and the edges are worn, but it's my
favorite. Walker, Blake, and I are all standing triumphantly next to
the derby car we built senior year. Bella would be in it too, but she's
the one who took the picture. I remember everything about that day. It
was the last one Blake ever had.

When tears start to burn my eyes, I slam my fist against the steering
wheel over and over until my entire hand feels like it's on fire.
Good. Physical pain is so much easier to deal with.

I close my eyes and take a few deep breaths. If I'm really going in
there, I need to get a handle on myself. When I open my eyes they drift
to the door of her shop again. There's a poster for Walker hanging on
the glass. With determination in my step, I get out of the car and walk
inside.

The bell chimes above the door and I come to a stop at the counter. I
spot the top of Bella's head leaned over a rather large guy in a chair
towards the back.

"I'm all booked today," she calls over her shoulder. The buzzing of the
gun doesn't stop and I step closer to watch her meticulously color in a
line.

I run my hands down the front of my jeans and take another breath.
"Bishop?"

The gun buzzes a little louder and the guy in the chair jumps. "Ouch!
Watch what you're doing, will ya?"

Bella laughs under her breath, wiping the blood with the rag in her
opposite hand. "Relax, tough guy. It couldn't have hurt that bad."

His eyes widen and travel over to me with scrutiny.

The dark, black hair cascades down her back in waves now. It was always
a stark contrast to her porcelain skin and striking blue eyes. That's
what happens when you get your hair color from a bottle I guess. The
colorful tattoos in a sleeve down her arm drawn me in next. When I left
she only had a few, now there isn't room for much more.

I want her to look at me. I need to see her face so badly it hurts.

"Bishop, will you please just talk to me."

She laughs darkly. "I have nothing to say to you." 1

I sigh. "Well, that's too bad. I have a lot of things I need to say to
you and I'm not leaving until I do."

I shove my hands into the pockets of my jeans right as she finally
glances over her shoulder at me. The connection was brief, but it was
enough to send my heart rate into overdrive.

She turns back to her client and the buzzing resumes.

"You should leave. It's what you're good at." 1

I grunt in frustration. "You know that's not true. I didn't have a
choice."

The guy in the chair moves to push up from his seat, looking between us.
"Listen, if you're going to have a fight with your boyfriend, maybe we
should reschedule."

Bella huffs and shoves him back down into the chair. "He's not my
boyfriend, and I'm almost done. Sit down and quit being such a pussy."1

The large guy begrudgingly concedes and I fight the smile on my face. I
like the fact that she still has that spark to her. I also kind of hate
it because it's the reason she's being so stubborn right now.

"I'm not fucking around," I say, stepping closer. "I'm not leaving until
you talk to me. I'll wait outside if you want, but I'm not going
anywhere."

This causes a reaction out of her. She abruptly puts down her gun and
rips her gloves off in one quick motion. She takes forceful steps
towards me and folds her arms when she comes to a stop.

"You want to talk, Christian? Fine, we'll talk." She plasters a fake smile
on her face. "It's real nice of you to show up heretwo months after
you got out of prison. Thanks for thinking of us."

Her words immediately make me feel like shit. I know I should have come
sooner, but I couldn't bring myself to face her.

"I'm sorry..."

She holds her hand up. "Don't tell me you're sorry. I've heard that so
many times in the past few months that it literally means nothing to me.
It doesn't make me feel any better, it doesn't change the fact that my
entire life was ripped away from me, and it sure as hell doesn't excuse
the fact that you finally decided it was time to grace me with your
fucking presence."

My eyes cast downward for a moment. I lower my voice. "I loved him, too."

Instead of sadness, I see fury in her eyes. I don't have time to react
before her fist flies into my throat. So far, this is going exactly how
I expected.















Chapter 2 l Sorry Not Sorry



Bella

Present Day...

The pleasure it gives me to hear Christian gasping for air is alarming.  I
don't know what came over me, but I don't exactly feel bad about it. 
Ben, the guy in my chair, has a look of disbelief on his face as he
grips the handrails.  

            Still trembling with the adrenaline coursing through my
veins, my eyes flick back to Christian.  He's still shaking his head,
clutching his throat.

            "Damn, Bishop.  You have a good arm."  His voice is
strained, but I swear I see him smirk.  That pisses me off more.2

            "I mean it, Christian.  Get the hell out of here."  I point to
the door firmly and he shakes his head again.

            "Not happening."  He pops his neck against his hand before
landing his eyes on me.  A strange feeling comes over me and I can't
bring myself to look away.  He was always someone I count on no matter
what, and when I needed him the most, he wasn't there.  I don't think I
could ever forgive him for that.2

            Regaining my composure, I square my shoulders.  "Do what you
want."  I turn to walk back to Ben.  "It doesn't matter what you say. 
You're wasting your breath."

            I reach for my gun again and Ben stands up quickly.  "No
way, Bella.  You're way too wound up to be poking at me with that
needle."  He draws his hand across his throat.  "I'm done for today."6

            My eyes roll.  It's always the largest guys that are the
most scared.  "Whatever," I call to him.  "Call me next week and I'll
fit you in so we can finish."

            The door chimes in the background, but I keep my focus on
cleaning up my equipment.  He was my last appointment for today so I
have little chance of getting rid of Christian by being busy again.  It goes
several minutes but I can still hear his footsteps move across the
concrete floors from time to time.  Unable to stand it anymore, I get up
to see what he's doing.

            His eyes are fixated on the wall of photos I have out
front.  They are all sporadically placed behind the chairs in the
waiting room.  Most of them are of art shows and conferences Walker and
I either went to or competed in.  The others are of us.  By us, I mean
everyone how we used to be.  Walker, Blake, Christian, me, and even that
bitch Jacob.  There was a time when you were unlikely to get a photo of
Christian without Jacob.  That's the only change I can be thankful for.

            He stands in front of one of them longer than the others. 
It was the summer before we lost Blake and all of us were down at the
lake for the weekend.  That was the best summer of my life and I'm
pretty sure he's thinking the same thing.

            "We never did get that golf cart out of the lake," Christian
says with a small laugh, motioning towards the picture.

            I bite my lip so I don't smile.  "Yeah, well you were the
one who drove it in there.  I'm surprised you didn't drown."

            "I almost did," he says, turning to me.  His eyes are lit up
with amusement and for a brief second I forget why I'm mad at him.  That
second passes quickly.  I turn my eyes to the floor and cross my arms.

            Christian steps around me and stops in front of the one from
their senior prom.  I wasn't a senior, but Walker took me as his date. 
He also took me for the next two years after that until I graduated.  I
know for a fact Christian is focusing on Jacob.  If I remember correctly,
they broke up later that night at the after party—and got back together
about three days later.

            I don't notice that Christian has moved closer until I feel his
hands on my arms.  I look up and his eyes are searing down at me.  "Can
we go outside and talk about this.  Please, Bishop."

            Reluctantly, I nod and he follows me through the shop and
out the back door.  There's boxes piled up from my recent shipment that
I haven't gotten around to cleaning up and several chairs are scattered
around from when we used to sit back here after hours.

            I decide I can't sit and turn around to face him.  He
immediately reaches into his pocket and pulls out his pack of
cigarettes.  After lighting it and taking a drag, he hands it to me.

            I shake my head.  "No, I quit."

            His eyebrows raise.  "Really?  Good for you."  He takes
another drag and smirks at me.

            "I've been getting rid of a lot of things that are bad for
me."4

            He laughs once, but not out of humor.  "Are you insinuating
that I'm one of those things?"

            I shrug.

            "Okay, well I guess I deserve that."  He takes another drag
and continues to stare at me.  I wish he would stop looking at me like
that.

            Throwing my arms out to my sides, I face him.  "You got me
out here.  Say what you need to say so you can leave."

            "Is that what you really want?  For me to leave?"

            The pain is evident in his voice, but I pretend not to care.

            "Yes."1

            He's quiet for a moment and I notice his jaw ticking away. 
It always does when he's thinking about something he wants to say.  He
never was very good at being open about his feelings— well, except for
with me.

            "I'm sorry, Bishop.  I know you don't want to hear that, but
I mean it.  I don't know how to do this.  I don't know how to make up
for something that I can't change.  I can't fix what happened and it
fucking kills me."

            His face is getting redder as he struggles to get out each
word a little more than the last.  The growing lump in my throat is
getting harder to swallow, but he keeps going.

            "And I wanted to come."  He steps closer, but doesn't reach
for me.  He pulls his hands into his chest and his beautiful face twists
in agony. "I wanted to come every single day but I couldn't.  I didn't
know what to say to you and I was terrified if I saw your face I would
lose it altogether.  So much shit is messed up right now and I've never
felt so lost."  He releases a long sigh, dropping his hands to his
sides.  He laughs bitterly.  "And I know that it's not fair of me to
feel that way when you're the one who is suffering the most, but I miss
him too.  I miss him everyday."1

            As hard as I fight it, a tear falls down my cheek anyway.  I
angrily brush it away.  "Well, you know what?"  I move closer so I'm
inches from his face.  "If it would have been Jacob, you couldn't have
stopped me from getting to you.  That's what hurts the most."

            He grabs my hand as I turn away from him.  "You're all I
have left," he whispers.

            Ripping my hand from his grasp, I narrow my eyes at him. 
"You should have thought about that before you broke my heart.  We were
always there for you."

            When the word 'we' comes out of my mouth, I stifle another
sob.  For so long I was a we.  Now, I'm all alone in this world and the
only person who can change that doesn't seem to get it.  It's not about
saying the right thing or pointing fingers as to who's at fault—it's
about loyalty.  Loyalty to those who mean the most to you and facing it
together even if it's hard.

            "He loved you," I whisper harshly.  I turn for the door
again and pause with my hand on the knob.  "We both did."2

            Leaving Christian in the alley, I lock the door behind me.  I
fall against it and slide down until I hit the floor, pulling my knees
into my chest.  The tears won't stop now and I know that.  I cry for
Walker and how much I can't do this on my own.  I cry because I'm scared
if I don't my mind will be too numb to feel anything else.  And I cry
for Christian, because despite everything I need him now more than ever. 
Now I have to find a way to let him back in before I fall completely
apart.



            For the most part I have avoided going to places where I
might run into people.  I hate the way they look at you.  It's always
the same no matter what the tragedy is or who it happened to.  They used
to do it because of Blake and it made me so mad.  Pity doesn't make
anyone feel any better, it just amplifies the hurt that you have
inside.  It makes it real if other people can see it just by looking at
you.

            I'm speeding my way through the isles at our local drug
store when I spot someone I absolutely don't want to see.  I duck into
the laundry isle right before her eyes connect with mine.

            "Bella?" Jacob calls to me.  She hurries in her espadrille
wedges as fast as her perfect tanned legs will carry her.  "I thought
that was you."  She smiles at me like we're best friends, but that was
never the case.

            I force one back and use my polite voice.  "Jacob, so nice
to see you."  I nod to the basket draped over my arm.  "I'm running a
little behind on time though."

            When I try to walk away she grabs my arm.  I look down at
her hand like I want to tear it off and she pulls it back and runs it
through her white, blonde hair with a small laugh.

            "Sorry, I just need you to confirm the flowers for
Saturday.  Daddy says you didn't get back him yet."

            I almost roll my eyes.  It's really unfortunate that the
only florist worth a shit in a sixty-mile radius happens to her father.

            With a sigh, I shift my basket to the other arm.  "I'm sure
whatever he picks will be fine.  That's not really what my main concern
is right now."1

            That's when she does it.  She gets that look on her face and
I want to punch her.  Not as bad as I want to punch Christian again, but the
urge is strong.1

            She bites her lip, glancing around for a moment.  The large
diamond on her finger sparkles against the florescent lighting.

            "Have you talked to Christian?" she asks.

            I laugh once.  Obviously Jacob has no idea the strain we
have at the moment and I'm not about to sit and explain to her the
reason.  So I lie.

            "Of course."    

            She tilts her head, her voice almost a whisper.  "Well,
how's he doing?  I heard he got out a couple months ago."

            "Why don't you ask him yourself, Jacob?"  I can't keep the
irritation out of my tone.  I feel like I'm sixteen again and about to
be the in between for one of their epic fights.2

            "Never mind," she says quickly, shaking her head.  She
plasters on another megawatt smile.  "Let me know if you need anything."

            I give a thumbs up.  "Will do."

            As soon as she turns her back, I flip her off.  I don't care
how pissed I am at Christian, that girl is evil.  You protect the ones you
love, even when you hate them.








Chapter 3 l Stay True




Christian

(Summer 2012) 6 yearsearlier...

            After slamming the cooler shut, I stomp over to Blake.  I
slap him upside the head.  "Hey, genius.  We need ice in the cooler
unless you plan on drinking warm beer all weekend."

            Blake rubs his head and narrows his eyes at me.  "No shit. 
We're stopping at the gas station on the way to the lake."

            "Alright then" I grumble, leaning back against the Jeep.

            Blake continues shoving last minute essentials into his
duffle while eyeing me from time to time.

            "What's up your ass?  I thought you were excited to go to
the lake for the weekend."

            I flip my ball cap around and lower my shades.  "Yeah, well
Jacob is being a little bitch and as of twenty minutes ago—she isn't
coming."

            "Fuck her, bro," Walker proclaims, draping his arm over my
shoulder.  Blake tosses him a cold beer and he catches it with his free
hand.  He then proceeds to open it with his teeth, spilling some on me
in the process.  I growl under my breath.

            "Sorry, man," Walker says with his signature grin.  Walker
is always smiling.  It doesn't matter what we're doing, or how much
trouble we are about to be in, you'll always see Walker standing there
with a shit-eating grin on his face.  I wish I had the strength to be
that happy all the time.

            Blake stops loading the duffle and looks up at me.  "Okay,
now I kind of want to know.  What happened?  You two were practically
fucking against the side of my house earlier this morning when we were
packing up Bella."

            I light a cigarette and exhale through my nose.  "Your guess
is as good as mine.  She was going off about some party at Johnny Tate's
and how everyone is going to be there and how we never do what she wants
to, and blah, fucking, blah."

            "Johnny Tate is a douchebag," Bella says from behind me as
she hoists her bag into the back seat.

            "Thank you," I say, pulling her over to me.  I squeeze her
against my side.  "I'm glad someone around here understands what I'm
going through."

            Blake rolls his eyes, but I catch something different in
Walker's.  Jealousy maybe?

            I remove my arm from Bella and press redial on my phone. 
I've called Jacob about ten times in the past ten minutes, so I'm about
due for another.  When it goes straight to voicemail I throw it as hard
as I can into traffic.  We are parked along the side of the highway
while we reorganize all the baggage.  Apparently that will no longer be
necessary since Jacob is not coming.

            "Are you going to get that?" Walker asks, glancing at my
phone laying precariously in between the yellow lines.

            With a sigh I start to walk over to retrieve it.  Right when
I'm about to step on the road a semi truck blasts around the corner
nearly knocking me off my feet.  I clutch my chest and watch in horror
as the wheels shatter my only means of communication.  I might as well
be dead.

            "Great" I cry, throwing my hands up.  "That's fucking
great.  What if she calls?"

            I face my friends as each of them avoid eye contact with
me.  I plant my hands on my hips.  "None of you want her to come?"

            More silence.

            "You know what," I say, taking determined steps to the
jeep.  I grab my duffle from the back and drape it over my shoulder. 
"Then I'm not going either."

            "Ah, come on man.  Of course we want her to come," Blake
chimes in while pulling his shoulder length brown hair into a bun.  I
fight the urge to roll my eyes.  I hate when he does that.

            "Yeah," Walker adds.  "We've been planning this trip for
weeks, and now that Bella is finally fifteen, she gets to come with us. 
It will be fun, with or without Jacob."

            Bella is leaning against the passenger door pretending to
look disinterested.  Her dark hair is braided up her head and twisted
into knots sticking out at the sides.  For being late summer, she still
doesn't have much of a tan, but the glow she does have makes her eyes
sparkle against her skin.

            "Um, Christian?" Blake says, interrupting my thoughts.  "You
coming or what?"

            Biting down my frustration, I throw my bag in the back and
climb inside.  Surprisingly, Bella sits next to me.  And by next to me, I
mean very close.  With all the baggage we are taking there are barely
two seat back here.

            When Walker starts the ignition, she finally looks over at
me with a small smile.  "I'm glad you came."

            I pat the top of her leg.  "Me, too."

            It was meant to be a friendly gesture, but the look in her
eyes and the warmth running up my arm from where I touched her tells me
otherwise.  Bishop.  Her name is Bishop and she's a dude.


3

            The Lake House, if you can even call it that, is only a
thirty-minute drive.  It's basically a small cabin with barely any
running water and no electricity.  But to us, it's the greatest thing
we've ever seen.  Lake Wintergreen is perhaps the most scenic lake in
all of New Haven.  That may just be my personal opinion, but coming here
every summer is something I look forward to the most. 

            The houses along the lake go for upwards of a million
dollars and to have a small cabin like Walker's family, you still need
to spend a pretty penny.  It does come with a dock, boat launch
(complete with skidoos) and the infamous golf cart.  It seems that no
matter how hard we try; every year something happens to the poor thing. 
I hope this year will be different.  We like having it around.

            I'm sitting on a wooden rocking chair trying like hell to
piece back together my shattered phone.  I let off a string of
profanities every five seconds until a small phone is handed to me.  I
turn to see Bella in the chair beside me, an amused expression on her face.

            "Here, use mine."

            I can't help but smile a little.  "Thanks, Bishop.  But
calling Jacob from another girls' phone, no matter who they are, will
just cause more problems."

            Bella slumps back in her seat and shoves her phone in her
pocket.  With a sigh she says, "Well, don't let her ruin you trip."

            Turning to her, I tilt my head.  "Don't ever change,
Bishop.  Don't let some guy make you feel like you're not good enough or
mess with some guys head just because you can.  Just keep being you,
okay?"

            "Okay," she says hesitantly.  "Are you okay, Christian?"

            I stand up from my chair and stretch my arms above my head. 
"Yeah, I'm cool.  I need to talk a walk."1

            I step into the cabin to get my shoes and the bedroom door
is closed that I'm sharing with Blake.  I knock twice.

            "Who is it?" he shouts through the door.

            I laugh.  "It's me.  What are you doing jerking off in there?"

            He opens the door slowly and looks around nervously before
landing his eyes on me. 

            "You alone."

            I push on his chest to move him back, but he stops me. 
"Yes, I'm alone.  Why are you acting so weird?"

            A wicked smile crosses his lips.  "I have a plan."

            I arch an eyebrow.  "What kind of plan?"

            He steps aside and I immediately see what he's talking about.

            "Jer, this seems like trouble."

            He pats me on the back, pride in his eyes.  "Yep.  A whole
lot of it."


















Chapter 4 l Kryptonite


Christian

Present Day...

I left work early today. Not like it isn't something I haven't done
before, but I can't concentrate. Leaving things like that with Bella the
other day has been eating at me like crazy. I'm not usually the type of
guy to run from my problems, but this one is different. I know you're
not supposed to blame yourself for the stupid shit you get into when you
are teenagers, but for us, it carried into adulthood.

I'm sulking away on my chair when there's a knock on my door. With a
sigh, I push myself up and prepare for the worst. Visitors haven't
exactly been friendly lately. When I see my mom's warm smile, I smile
back. Thank God.

I pull the door open and she hugs me. Now, for most families this may
seem normal, but then again—not all families have an estranged felon
living in the apartment above the garage.

I hug her back. "You miss me or something," I joke into her ear.

She pulls back and slaps me lightly in the chest. "Can't a mother check
on her son from time to time." She steps in and immediately begins
picking up clothes sprung around the room. "Even if he is grown." She
turns back to me. "You do know how to do laundry right?"1

I laugh. "Yeah, I'm a little behind I guess."

She grabs a laundry basket from the corner and continues around the
small apartment until it's filled to the hilt.

"Mom, did you have something you needed to tell me or are you just here
to do my laundry?"

I itch to grab the cigarette perched on top my ear, but I don't. I don't
need that lecture along with whatever one is coming.

She sets the basket down by the front door and brushes her caramel,
brown hair from her face. Mack looks so much like her, and she has her
heart too.

"Christian, I would like you to come down and have dinner with us more
often. It would be nice for you and father to talk more."1

My eyes roll to the heavens. "Be serious, mom. I work with him eight
hours a day, sometimes more (sometimes less), shouldn't that be enough?"

Her eyes turn to the floor for a moment and I already feel like a dick.
She's been trying so hard to get us to find some common ground, but what
she doesn't realize is that we never had any. It's always been difficult
between us, which was only amplified by my time in the pen.4

I place my hand on her shoulder. "Hey, what are you making?"

This causes her lips to turn up. "Chicken and potatoes. Your favorite."

I hold my hand over my heart. "You know just how to get me in the feels."3

"You'll come, really?"

Her eyes are now hopeful and I lean down and kiss her cheek. "I wouldn't
miss it."1

With a new spring in her step she grabs my laundry and practically skips
down the stairs. Now if only my dad would have the same reaction.

I spend the rest of the evening involved in a pretty serious game of
Madden. The next time I look at the clock it's almost six. Running back
to my bedroom I grab the only clean pair of jeans I have and a fitted
black tee. I need to go shopping soon. The only two looks I have are
everyday thug or court appearance. I need some everyday casual. With a
final glance in the mirror I decide I look respectable enough to have
dinner with my parents.
As I'm rounding the corner into the living room, a familiar face greets
me through the glass front door. My stomach knots and I consider jumping
out of the window to avoid her. On the flip side, the really fucked up
part of my brain, wants to run to her. Hold her against me and never let
go. Currently, I'm somewhere in the middle.

Jacob fumbles with her dress and tucks her hair behind her ear while she
waits for me to make up my mind. With a deep breath, I walk over and
pull the door back halfway.

I lean on the doorframe. "What are you doing here, Jacob?"

Her large grey eyes meet mine and I almost break. It's been two years
since she looked at me like that, but I still see them every time I
close my eyes.

"I was worried about you."

I scoff. "Worried about me, huh?" I cock my head down to her. "Is that
why you never once came to visit me or wrote me even one letter."2

She looks down at her hands. "I read your letters..."1

I clap my hands in mock applause. "Thanks, Jacob. So fucking considerate
of you while your boyfriend rots in prison."

She looks up at me again. "I thought I made it clear that we were done."

I nod, my features rigid. "Okay, so get the fuck out."1

I move to slam the door, but she steps in between. "Christian, please."

The hand that is clutching mine has a new addition on it since I've seen
it last. I grab it and push it up into her face.

"Congrats, baby. Sorry I didn't send a card. I've been busy."1

Jacob sighs. "God, Christian. What did you want me to do?"1

"Oh, I don't know. Fucking wait for me?" I throw my arms up and she
continues to have that passive look on her face. It's like her heart is
made of blackened souls.1

She bites her lip and turns her head. I can tell she's thinking, or more
so regretting coming here. Or maybe she's being sneaky and doesn't want
to get caught. When she turns back to me I see the familiar tears in the
corners of her eyes.

"Can I come in?"

Stepping back without another word, she slips past me. I close the door
and watch her set her over-sized handbag on the counter. She pauses,
taking in the place, before turning back to me.

"I miss you."

I squeeze my eyes tight. "Jacob, please don't do this. I seriously can't
fucking handle it right now."

With my eyes closed I don't see her walk over to me until her hands are
on my arms. Slowly I open my eyes and her lips are inches from mine.

"What do you want from me?" I whisper.

Instead of responding she wraps her arms around my waist and lays her
head on my chest. Instinctively, I begin the run my hand down her hair.
She hums against me and I fight with everything I have left to hold it
together.

When I start to pull back, she tightens her grip. "Not yet," she
whispers. "I've waited so long for this moment."1

I lean my cheek against the side of her forehead and release a sigh.
"I'm never going to get over you if you keep doing things like this." I
pull back and hold her face in my hands. "My heart can't take it."2


Story continues below

While I wait for her rebuttal, she does something unexpected. She kisses
me. It's soft and measured at first, but then her hands travel up my
neck and pull me into her deeper. Our tongues dance together like they
never stopped, and before I know it, I have her lifted into the air and
am walking backwards towards my bedroom.

Breathlessly, she pulls away and I set her on her feet. I take in the
cinched waist of her dress and those long, tanned legs that I would have
gladly suffocated for.

She bites her lip. "What now?"

I reach behind me and pull my shirt over my head. I catch her chest rise
quickly when she takes in my bulkier form. One thing prison is good for
is getting stacked.

I nod to her. "Take off your dress."1

She doesn't hesitate to lower the zipper and let it fall to the floor at
her feet. She steps out of it and stands in front of me in only a black
bra and matching panties. As tight and perfect as her body looks,
something is distracting me.

My eyes drift to her left hand. She followers my gaze and shifts it
behind her back.

I shake my head. "No, baby. You want me...you take that ring off."

Jacob seems conflicted, but then twists the multi-carat sparkler off and
lets it clang on my dresser. "Better?"

This time I nod. "Yes, much."

She steps over to me and begins to remove my pants while I kiss my way
down her neck. When she gets them off, I kick them to the side and grab
her by her hips, pushing her onto the bed. She leans up on her elbows
and watches me while I lick a trail up her leg to her panties. I hook
one finger inside, pulling the fabric to the side.

I pause, looking up at her. "Did you say that you miss me?" I lick once
slowly up her center and stop. Her hand reaches down to the stubble on
top of my head.

"Yes, Christian I miss you so much."

I smirk, licking her once more. She releases frustrated cries and bucks
her hips along my face, but I hold her down.

I tilt my head. "Do you love me, Jacob?"

This time the pleasure in her eyes turns into something else. She closes
them so I can't see and whispers, "Yes."

Unable to tell if she's lying, I move away from her and grab a condom
out of my bedside drawer. Her eyes open again when she hears the foil
packet. I position myself in front of her and watch her face.

"You want me?"

Instead of a yes or no answer, she whispers to me again. "Always."

Even if I did believe her, which I fucking don't, I press inside
anyway. She closes her eyes almost the entire time, moaning and clawing
at my back when I move to fast. I try to take my time with her, but I
can't. It's been too long and I'm afraid to get too lost in her. I may
never find my way out again.

When I finish in record time, I slide off of her and walk straight to
the bathroom to clean up. She's still curled in my blanket as I step
back into the room. I reach for my pants.

"Are you leaving?" she asks, leaning up on her elbow.

I nod. "Yep. I have dinner with my parents." I proceed to pull on my
shirt and she is still staring at me motionlessly.

"And you're just going to leave me here?"2

While buttoning my pants, I shrug. "Don't you have like a fiancé waiting
at home or something."

"Real nice, Christian," she sneers. She throws the blanket off of her and
slips on her panties and bra. "Shall I tell him how I spent my afternoon
or would that be too much?"1

I roll my eyes. "It was your choice to come here. You knew what was
going to happen."

She pulls her dress up and adjusts the straps. "Really? I knew I was
going to come here and realize that I was still in love with you."

The anger on her face doesn't match her words. I can't seem to form
sentences. I spot the cigarette that must have fallen from behind my ear
and reach for it. She rolls her eyes when I light it and take a much
needed drag.

Jacob crosses her arms. "Well?"

I laugh bitterly. "Well, what? You want me to tell you that I spent the
past two years pinning away for you and how this evening all my fucking
dreams finally came true." I narrow my eyes at her. "Because I won't."

She shakes her head, tears falling down her cheek. "You don't mean that."

I snub my cigarette out in the ashtray and walk over to her. "You know
how I feel about you. I've made that very clear to you many, many times,
but I refuse to be your dirty little secret while you prance around
acting like your life is perfect."

She wipes her eyes and reaches for her bag. When she turns back to me I
take a deep breath. "It's not perfect." She laughs once. "My life is far
from it. I'm not lying when I say that I miss you. I do. I miss you
every day and I can't stop. I know that's not fair, but it's the truth."3

I cross my arms and bite my tongue. There are so many things I could say
that would send her out of here hating the asshole that I am, but I
can't. She knows what to say to keep my heart beating just a little bit
faster than it should. She's been doing it since we were fifteen and it
works as good now as it did then.

She runs a hand through her hair and pauses at my door. "I had a feeling
you would still be angry when I talked to Bella earlier this week. She
didn't seem too thrilled about me asking about you."

My eyebrows pull in. "You talked to Bella about me?"

She nods, pulling her sunglasses down. "Yeah, at the drug store. She's
really having a hard time." She leans over and squeezes my arm. "I'm
glad she still has you."

I swallow the lump in my throat. If only that were true.

Jacob leans up on her heels and kisses my cheek. Her lips linger longer
than usual. I turn my face quickly and catch her lips. Caught off guard,
she touches her lips with her fingertips when I pull away.

"I love you, Jacob."3

She gives a sad smile before turning and walking out of my door. I close
it behind her and slam my fist against the wood. So far, out of the two
problems I've been trying to make better, I've only managed to make them
worse.



Chapter 5 l Vices



Bella

Present Day...

            Being jolted out of sleep at two in the morning is nothing
new for me.  The thing is, it hasn't happened in years.  I glance at the
clock beside my bed and sit up, rubbing my eyes.  My phone begins to
ring again and I reach for it.  I answer without checking the display.

            "Yeah?"

            There's a pause.  

            "Um, Bella.  It's Phil down at The Watering Hole.  I have
Christian down here and I know it's late but I also know he's on parole so..."1

            His rambling voice trails off and I'm starting to get an
instant head ache.  I pinch the bridge of my nose.

            "Okay, I'll be right there."

            I end the call and throw my legs over the side of the bed. 
Leave it to Christian to violate his parole and my sleep at the same time. 
I'm still so furious with him I can't figure out why I'm currently
scrambling around for something to wear.  After assessing my wrecked
face in the mirror I smear on some concealer and mascara.  Next I
rummage through my laundry basket for some decent looking jeans and grab
my favorite grey hoodie.  He can't expect miracles at two in the morning.1

            I lock all the deadbolts on the door and make my way into
the street.  I could drive the three blocks over to the bar, but it
seems like a waste.  Besides, it may be amusing to watch Christian stumble
home.

            Walking fast, I arrive in under ten minutes.  I spot him
immediately, slumped over at the end of the bar.  He has his signature
mixer clutched in his hand, with one leg planted on the floor.

            Phil nods to me when I step inside.  I walk over and lean
into him.

            "He's been here since a little after seven.  I didn't have
the heart to turn him away with all that he's going through and stuff." 
He runs a bar rag across the counter and nods to Christian.  "When I asked
him who to call, he said you."2

            My eyes widen.  After the conversation we had the other day
why in the hell would Christian have someone call me.  I force a smile.

            "I'll get him out of here.  Thanks for not calling the cops."

            Phil waves me off.  "Christian's family around here.  What he
did time for was bullshit.  Any one of us would have done the same thing."

            I keep my features even.  True, Christian served time for
protecting his sister from an abusive asshole, but the other crimes he
got away with, brought us all down.

            I walk over to Christian and he lifts his head up just before I
reach him.

            He smiles a stupid grin.  "You came?"

            "Of course I came.  Apparently I'm your emergency contact."

            He chuckles loudly and almost falls off his stool.  I place
my hand on his shoulder to steady him.  He covers my hand with his and
looks directly into my eyes.  "You're always there for me, Bella."

            For a second I have to make sure my mouth isn't hanging
open.  Did he just call me Bella?2

            I brush it off and start to pull him off the stool.  "You
ready to go champ?  I think these are the kinds of places you're
supposed to avoid."

            Christian attempts to stand, but then grabs both my arms.  His
bloodshot eyes meet mine and I can't look away.  There's so much pain in
them that it tears at my own shattered heart.
"I did something bad tonight."

            I run my hand along his head to soothe him.  "We all do bad
things, Christian.  The important thing is that we know that they were wrong
so we don't do them again."

            He bites his lip, looking away from me.  "I will."

            "You will what?"

            He turns back to me, his eyes darkened.  "I'll do it again."

            I put my arm under his shoulder.  "Okay, let's get out of
here.  Let me help you."

            He drapes his arm over my shoulder and we start to walk in a
semi-straight line.

            We make it a few steps and he stops, reaching for his wallet.

            Phil shakes his head.  "Don't worry, Christian.  We're square."

            Christian thanks him before I drag him into the street.  He
pulls away from me and leans on the brick wall.  I cross my arms.

            "Care to explain to me what that was about?"

            He's bent over slightly, one arm resting on the wall, the
other dangling down at his side.

            I raise an eyebrow.  "Christian?  Are you going to be sick?"

            Before I can get all of the words out, Christian vomits a stream
of brown liquid down the side of the building.  I cover my face and turn
away as the sounds of him retching are starting to make me queasy.  Just
when I think he's done, he starts all over again.  I wasn't even sure a
person could consume that much liquid.3

            When I hear his ragged breathing, I turn back to look at
him.  He has good aim, hit the wall perfectly and missed his clothes
completely.  I reach into my bag and pull out a scarf that I never want
returned.

            "Here," I say, handing it to him.  He takes it from me
without looking up and wipes his mouth.  His lips turn up when he opens
his eyes and sees what it is.

            "Smells like you," he slurs.

            "And it's my favorite scarf too, so you're lucky."

            He gives a lop-sided grin.  "I'll buy you a new one."

            My frustration begins to mount when I think of the
appointment I have scheduled at nine in the morning.  "Do you think you
could walk now?"1

            He looks to his car parked along the street and back to me. 
"It's like...um, five miles."

            "No, dumbass.  To my house.  The shop is three blocks over. 
You can stay in the spare room until you sober up."

            His face goes white and he looks like he might be sick
again.  "I don't think...I mean, that doesn't sound like..."

            I grab him by the sleeve of his hoodie and pull him
forward.  "You don't have a choice.  You don't have to talk to me, but I
will get you into a bed safely before you get arrested."  I point my
finger firmly into his chest.  "Do you understand?"

            I enunciate each word for him and he nods.

            We start walking again and I keep a tight grip on his
sleeve.  When we round the corner my hand slips away and instead of
grabbing his sleeve again, he grabs my hand first.  I let him lace his
finger with mine if that's what it's going to take to get him to keep
moving.  The next two blocks go on without any more complications as we
come to a stop at the entrance of my shop.

            I release his hand and reach in bag from my keys.

            "You shouldn't be out alone at night, Bishop," Christian says
looking around.  "This a shady part of town."2

            I laugh under my breath as I start with the top lock. 
"Thank you for you concern."

            He grabs my shoulder, so I turn my head to look at him.  The
expression he has is so serious for as drunk as he is.  "I mean it,
Bishop.  You're a small girl.  Someone could overtake you easily."

            I keep on the other three locks, ignoring his question. 
When I push the door open, I motion him inside first.

            "Take the stairs to the left.  The apartment is at the top. 
Bathroom is the first door on your right."

            He pauses with his hand on the railing.  "Are you coming up?"

            I nod.  "Yeah, I need to make a phone call first."

            Christian grips the railing and then makes his way up the
stairs.  When I hear all the doors open and close like they should, I
take a seat on the over-sized chair by the window.  I reach into my bag
and pull out my phone, scrolling to my saved messages.  My finger pauses
on the one that I listen to the most.  I squeeze my eyes shut and hold
it to my ear after pressing play.

            "...Hey baby.  I'm running a little tonight but I should be
home soon.  God, I miss you.  How did I get so lucky to have you
forever?  I can't wait to see you.  I love you..."

            As soon as the audio ends, I play it again.  And again. 
My hoodie is soaked with tears by the time I finally stop.

            When I've had enough, I scroll down to another number and
hit send.  It goes straight to voicemail, but I don't have the heart to
turn it off.

            "...Hey, you've reached Walker.  You know what to do. 
Hang up and text me.  Hahaha!..."3

            There was a time when I thought that message was so stupid
it drove me crazy, and now every time I hear it, it makes me cry.  

            I shut off my phone and stare up at the ceiling where Christian
is no doubt passed out somewhere on the floor.  I'm almost afraid to see
what he's doing.  Somehow I find the courage to get up and climb the
stairs.  When I open the door, he's curled up on the couch, one hand and
one leg on the floor.  And they say you never learn anything in college?

            Instead of waking him, I grab a blanket off the back of the
coach and drape it over him.  He stirs slightly and mumbles something
incoherently.

            "Go to sleep, Christian," I whisper.

            He shifts on his side and with his eyes still closed he
says, "I slept with Jacob."

            "What else is new," I tease.

            His eyes open and his expression turns serious.  "No, I
slept with Jacob tonight."

            I clasp my hand over my mouth and take the seat beside him. 
"Christian, she's engaged.  How could you?"

            "That's not the worst part," he says tentatively.

            I turn to him, accusation in my tone.  "What could be worse
than that."

            "She left her ring on my dresser."














Chapter 6 l Kiss me

Bella

(Summer 2012) 6 years earlier...

It late evening now, and Jacob has yet to make an appearance. Christian has
been sulking about it all night regardless of how he tries to play it
off. He did disappear with Blake and nobody seems to know what they are
doing. They said they had some errands to run and they would be right
back. Thankfully, I've had Walker to keep me company. We spent the day
out on the skidoos and are currently cuddled up by the fire.1

Sharing a blanket with Walker or Christian would be nothing to me. We've
grown up together, shared secrets, ate off of each other. But now, the
older we get, the blurrier the lines between male and female friendship
seem to be. You could go into it with the best intentions, but someone
always gets hurt.

That's what I like about Christian. He's so wrapped up in Jacob that I doubt
I even enter his radar. Besides, how to do you complete with perfection.
I mean, her attitude it total shit, but she looks like a real life
Barbie doll. Shiny blonde hair, long toned legs, perfect white smile—she
even has that voice girls like her always do. Sweet with just a little
hint of bitch that makes all the guys swoon. I tried to talk like her
once and the only thing I managed to do was convince Christian I had a cold.

Then there's Walker. I've had a suspicion from time to time that he may
be into me. The way he stares at me when he thinks I'm not looking, or
the subtle compliments he gives me when I'm obviously feeling insecure.
Walker wouldn't even come in second in the looks department compared to
Christian. Walker is insanely hot. He has the right amount of muscle to not
be too bulky, light green eyes that sparkle when he gets excited about
something, and sandy brown hair that curls up at the ends. He probably
just needs a haircut, but I think it's adorable anyway.

I feel him grab a piece of my hair from beside me and I shoot him a look.

"What are you doing?"

He takes his time scrutinizing the color. "I was wondering why you dye
it black. Blake's hair is very light brown, almost dirty blond even." 

I pull my hair from his hands and smooth it back down on my shoulders.
"Because, I don't want to be another dumb blonde. I want to stand out
for my personality, not for the way that I look."

Walker wets his lips and leans into my ear. "Bella, even if you dyed your
hair purple, you'd still be prettiest girl I've ever seen in real life."2

I cock an eyebrow. "Be serious."

"I am," he says, leaning closer. He tucks a fallen strand behind my ear
and kisses my cheek. "The personality thing is a bonus. Not everyone
gets to fall for their best friend."1

Suddenly, my lips become very dry. Is Walker flirting with me?

"Walker, are you saying that you like me?"

He nods, his lips brushing over mine lightly.

"What about Blake?" I whisper, feeling the softness of his bottom lip
once more.

"I think he'll be okay with it."

"How do you know?"

He threads his fingers in the back of my hair and pulls me even closer.
"There's only one way to find out."

That's when he kisses me. Not just any kiss. Fireworks exploded inside
of me. It's slow at first but then I open my mouth slightly. He tickles
my bottom lip with the tip of his tongue before pushing it all the way
inside. By this point I have both hands fisted in his hair and am
practically sitting on his lap. The soft hums that erupt from his throat
are telling me that I'm doing something right. I could kiss Walker
forever. The way he cups my face so gently, like he cherishes every
touch, every kiss. He has no idea that this is my very first one—and
I'll never forget it.
After Walker kisses the life out of me for a solid hour, we decide we
need a drink. He wraps the blanket around me before walking up to the
cabin to get beers. The ones in the cooler are long gone by now. I'm not
even sure I should still be drinking. It's not something I do very often.

He returns with a smile on his face, handing one to me first and kissing
the side of my head.

My mind immediately goes to a place of doubt as I pick on the label of
my bottle. "Walker, this doesn't have to be anything. I don't want any
trouble with Jer."

Walker's eyebrows pull in. "You think I said those things so that I
could kiss you?"

I shrug.

He scoots over on the log and stops beside me so our legs are touching.
He grabs my hand and laces our fingers together. "I like you Bella, like
a lot. If  anyone, it was me that was nervous. You're so ... beautiful,
I mean look at you."

He holds his hands out around me and I feel my cheeks flush. "Stop it,
Walker."

"No, I mean it." He retakes my hand and kisses my palm. "It will be
worth the fight with Blake if you'll go out with me."2

"Like, you want to go out on a date or something?"

Walker laughs, and it's the sweetest sound. "Yeah, that and I want you
to be my girl."

"You want me to be your girlfriend?"

He grabs the sides of my face and kisses me. "Yes, Bella. Be my
girlfriend." He smiles that ear splitting grin and I can't help but do
the same.

"Okay," I say in a small voice.

"Okay?" He runs his hand along his chin. "I think you can do better that
that."

I scoff. "You want me to shout from the rooftops that I now belong to
Walker Summers."

He shrugs. "It's a start."

I shove him backwards and he almost falls off the log. He rights
himself, laughing. "Okay, I'm kidding. But it would be really fucking
amazing."

I lean in and kiss him once. "How about a simple yes for now and we'll
work our way up to public display of devotion."

He kisses me back, harder. "Deal."

We start to get lost in kissing each other again, when headlights from
several large vehicles blind us from above.

Walker holds his arm up to shield his eyes.

"Who is it?" I ask, doing the same.

Thankfully the lights shut off and the owners of the vehicles pile out
one by one. The first person I notice is Johnny Tate. Jacob must have
brought the party to us. I'm sure Christian is going to be thrilled about
this.

The second thing I notice is how much Jacob is stumbling around. She can
barely stand in her wedge sandals and shorts so short if she bends over
any further we'll all know for sure she's not a natural blonde.2

Johnny helps Jacob down through the yard while she obnoxiously calls for
Christian. I stand up from my seat.

"He's not here, Jacob."

She sneers at me, pulling out a tube of lip gloss. "Well, where is he? I
called like five times."

I watch her smear the sticky pink goo all over her lips with surprising
precision. Must be something girls like her are taught.

"I don't know. He went somewhere with Blake. Should be back soon."

She rolls her eyes. "Okay, then." She turns back to the entourage of
guys and girls she brought with her. "Put the kegs over there and you
can set up the table under the deck."

I grab her arm and she turns back to me with disdain.

"What the hell are you doing?" I ask.

She rolls her eyes at me. "Having a party, duh?"

She attempts to turn away from me again, but I tighten my grip. "Christian
is going to freak out that you invited all these people here."2

She shrugs me off. "Please, Bishop. I only invited the important ones."
She looks around the campfire with disinterest. "Besides, this party is
looking pretty lame."

"It's not supposed to be a party, Jacob. We just came to hang out for
the weekend," I say through my teeth."

"Boring," she says in sing-song voice. She holds her hand out and a cup
appears, filled to the rim. "Thank you, Johnny," she smiles back at him.

He gives her a once over. "Any time, girl."

Okay, I've seen enough. We need to find Christian before this gets any more
out of control. The last thing we need is for him to show up and catch
his girlfriend falling all over some douchebag at his own party.

I grab Walker by the shirt and drag him down by the dock. "We need to
find them."

"I can't leave you alone here." He looks around at the increasing number
of people showing up and back to me.

I pull my phone out of my pocket. "Call Jer. He'll know what to do."

Walker nods and dials his number. I hold my breath while I wait. I've
seen Christian lose him temper a couple times before and it's not something
you look forward too. Especially when it involves Jacob.

















Chapter 7 l Breaking Bad

Christian


(Summer 2012) 6 years earlier...

The thing about good ideas is, they usually get you in trouble. When I
walked into the bedroom two hours ago there was three pounds of weed on
the bed. Now I'm riding back to the cabin in the golf cart with my
pockets stacked and a few loose joints.4

Blake got the idea when he overpaid for a bag last week. Not that we
are avid pot smokers, but we do enjoy the recreational toke from time to
time. Apparently he met this guy who could hook us up if we bought in
bulk. I'm not very good at math, but I'm pretty sure he inadvertently
made us drug dealers. We sold all three pounds in under an hour.3

The lake was the perfect place to start this venture. It is packed full
of bored high school students on vacation with their parents, college
students looking to have a good time before they go back to campus, and
thirty-something's looking to unwind before heading back to the daily
grind. It was easy. The one thing you have be careful of is the dreaded
greed. We made just over four grand for very minimal work. Illegal work,
but easy profit.

Blake's phone begins ringing non-stop when we are almost back to the
cabin. I nod to his pocket.

"You gonna answer that?"

He shakes his head. "No, it's Walker." He turns to me, conflicted.
"Should we tell him?"

"Yes, we should fucking tell him. The only reason we did this without
him is so he could look after Bella. She doesn't need to be involved in
this."2

He nods, still not convinced.

"Listen," I say, gripping the wheel tighter. "I'm not saying this is
going to be a thing now, but we do have something here. Maybe we ride
out the summer, make a little cash, and move on. Sure as hell beats
slaving for my dad all of senior year."

Blake continues to stare off into the lake as I continue along the
winding path. There's something larger swirling around in that brain of
his and I'm wondering what it is. My thoughts are interrupted when I see
the excessive amount of vehicles that have accumulated at the cabin.

"What the fuck?" I mutter, pulling the cart along the gravel path just
beyond the driveway. 

"Looks like a party," Blake says, with a grin.

"Yeah, but who invited them?"

As I step out of the cart I get a pretty good idea who is behind this.
The first vehicle I recognize is Johnny's. The first voice I hear is
Jacob's. Her high-pitched laughter travels from where she is dancing
over by the fire. Bella is sitting on the log with her arms crossed,
clearly not amused.1

When I make my way through the yard, Jacob spots me and let out some
sort of squeal.

"Baby!" she cries, throwing her arms around my neck. She kisses up to my
ear and I laugh.

"You miss me, Jacob?"

"Always," she slurs. I tighten my grip on her because she's not too
steady on her feet. I pull back to look at her face. "How much did you
have to drink, baby?"1

Her nose scrunches up and she attempts to demonstrate using her thumb
and forefinger. 

I laugh again. "Just a little, huh?"

She nods and blows out an unsteady breath, leaning into me more. "It was
fun." She turns around in my arms, facing me. "But I missed you. It's
not as much fun without you."
I kiss the side of her head. "Well, I'm glad you're here. I wish I could
say the same about your friends."

She waves her hand in the air. "Ah, they're fun too."

I raise an eyebrow when I notice Johnny giving me the eye from across
the fire pit. I shove my hand down the back of her short shorts and he
turns away, pretending to engaged in conversation. If there is one thing
every one in this town knows, Jacob Prescott is with me. Maybe not all
the time, but even when we're on the outs she always comes back.

She grabs my hand and starts to pull me to the cabin. "Come on, I want
to show you how much I missed you."

I smile at her and glance back at Bella. She's sitting with two girls
from the senior class, their mouths are running a mile a minute. Drunk
chatter is annoying to Bella and I can only imagine how much she wants me
to save her. If only Jacob's ass wasn't so tempting right now.

Flashing a wink back to Bella, I follow Jacob into the cabin. When we get
to the bedroom she practically throws me onto the bed and climbs on top
of me. She pulls at the hem of my shirt and kisses a trail up my
stomach. I want to push her head lower, but we have plenty of time for
that. 

I pull my shirt over my head when she removes her tank top. My hands
move to cup her breasts while she works at removing my pants. When I
reach back to unsnap her bra, she freezes.

Her face turns white and her eyes widen.

"Jacob...what's wrong."

Suddenly she leaps from my lap and shoves her head into the trashcan
beside the bed. Apparently, 'just a little', meant a lot. She proceeds
to vomit the entire contents of her stomach, very loudly, beside my bed.4

I gather her hair and hold it behind her head. She would really be
pissed if she puked on her new highlights. Rubbing my hand down her
back, I whisper soothing words in her ear while she heaves and cries.
This isn't anything new, but this is not what my dick had in mind when
we came back here.

The door peeks open and Blake shields his eyes. "Oh, shit. That looks
really bad."

"Get out of here, Blake," Jacob cries, mascara trailing down her face.

She releases another large heave and I stifle a gag. Blake clutches his
stomach. "Okay, dude. But I'm taking Walker for a little chat. Keep an
eye on Bella, will ya?"2

With one hand on Jacob's hair and one on her back I give him a look.
"And how am I supposed to do that?"

Blake points to her. "She'll quit eventually and pass out. A girl that
small can't have that much alcohol inside her."

I roll my eyes. "Thanks. You're a great friend."

He grins and reaches into the closet and throws me a towel. "I'll sleep
on the couch tonight."

I glower at him as he turns to leave. Jacob stops heaving and is now
quietly crying into the trash can. I bunch her hair up around my wrist
and pull her into my lap. She takes the towel and wipes the remnants
from her face and buries her head in my lap.

"I'm sorry I ruined your party," she murmurs.

I continue to rub small circles on her back. "You didn't, baby. And it
wasn't supposed to be a party. All I wanted was for everyone to come up
here and hang out a few more time before the end of summer. We only have
one month left."

She turns her head, her bloodshot rimmed in red. "I love you."

I smile and kiss her forehead. "I love you."

She grabs my hand and places it on her face. "No, like I really love you
Christian. I want to have all your babies and live in a two-story house and
pack your lunch in the morning before you go to work."4

I stifle a laugh. "You're drunk, baby. Get some sleep, okay?"1

She shakes her head, but rolls over anyway. "You'll see, Christian Fox.
I'm going to marry you one day."

As I'm lifting the blanket over her a sharpness pierces my chest. She
says all the things that I want to hear, but she'll never remember it in
the morning. They say people are honest when they drink. I sure hope
that's true.

Trying not to breathe through my nose, I grab the waste basket and towel
and head to the bathroom. Luckily, Jacob has good aim so she didn't get
it anywhere else. As I'm rinsing out the basket in the sink, I spot Bella
perched in the doorway.

She brings her hand up to her heart. "Oh, I long for the day when I can
have a relationship as romantic as yours. Cleaning chunks from a garbage
can spewed in there by my beloved."2

I laugh. "You'll see, Bishop. Relationships aren't always roses. You
have to take the good with the bad." I give the basket one final rinse
and set it on the floor, turning to her. "And it's about taking care of
the ones that you love, even if they did it to themselves."

Bella nods down the hallway. "Everyone left. Blake kicked them out and
then he took Walker somewhere on the golf cart. Said he needed to talk
about 'guy stuff"." Bella rolls her eyes, but I know exactly what he's
doing.

"You want to go hang out by the fire some more? Jacob will be passed out
til morning and I can check on her from time to time."

Bella smiles and then nods.

I grab an extra blanket and a few remaining beers. With all the drama if
the evening I've barely been able to catch a buzz.

We sit side by side staring into the flames in silence for a moment. I
crack the top of a beer and hand it to her. She smiles over at me when I
reach for one for myself.

"So, you and Walker, huh?"

Her mouth pops open and I smirk.

"How did you know?"

I bump my shoulder with hers. "It was kind of obvious. He isn't exactly
subtle when it comes to someone he likes."

She takes a small sip of her beer, but doesn't face me. "So, what do you
think about that?"

I shrug. "Walker is a good dude. I know he'll take care of you." I turn
to her so I can meet her eyes. "I think that is important. That you can
have someone you can rely on."

"What about Jacob?"

I laugh again. "What about Jacob?"

"This back and forth...it's not healthy. Do you really think a
relationship can withstand that forever?"2

I chug the rest of my beer and crush the can when I finish. I toss it
into the fire and watch the flames engulf the tin.

"I guess we'll see."
















Chapter 8 l Slow it Down

Bella

Present Day

The sound of Christian snoring is one thing I didn't miss. My bedroom is
down the hall and it still sounds like he's sleeping right next to me.
Unable to tolerate it any longer, I throw my covers off of me and reach
for my robe. Typically, I wouldn't even wear one but the small cotton
shorts and tank top I have on don't feel appropriate at the moment.

I pad into the kitchen without even evoking a stir from Christian and turn
on my coffee pot. The stack of bills by the microwave is piling up more
and more. Not only did Walker share most of the work with me, he also
handled the finances. That coupled with the income we were getting that
wasn't exactly on the books, I'd say that I'm in trouble. No threat of
losing the shop just yet, but it's coming if I don't think of something
soon. Maybe I can hire an apprentice?2

I'm halfway through a much needed cup of expresso when Christian stumbles
in. He has an uneasy look on his face.

"Good morning, dear. Can I fix you some breakfast, or won't you be
staying?" I say with my sweetest smile.

He lets out some sort of grumble and points down at his clothes. "This
is Walker's shirt."

I nod, taking another sip. "Yeah, well you destroyed your clothes so you
left me with few options."

He's quiet for a moment and then I catch him bunch it up at the collar
and inhale. He smiles, but it clouded with sadness. "It smells like him."

I turn my head away and wipe a tear with my knuckle. "You can have it if
you want. I haven't exactly gotten around to—there's still a lot of
things to take care of."

He nods, running his hand along the faded letters.

"I washed your clothes, too. They should be dry any minute."

This causes him to smirk. "Did you also undress me?"

My cheeks get heated, but I keep my features even. "I helped you. You
have nothing I haven't seen before."

Christian chuckles. "Maybe not that big though. You must be traumatized."1

I roll my eyes. "I guess you win by default then."

My words came off harsher than intended and he's quiet for a moment.
Christian takes the seat across from me and reaches for my cup. I pull it
back immediately. "Ew, I saw what came out of you last night."

Christian smirks. "Don't worry, I found your drawer of toothbrushes you
steal from the dentist's office. That's weird by the way."1

"Is not. Dental hygiene is very important and the only true way to wear
red lipstick is to have perfectly white teeth."1

He steals my cup again and holds it up to me in toast. "I'll drink to
that."

I cross my arms and lean over the table. "So, what are you going to do
about your little problem?"

Christian arches an eyebrow. "Bishop, I think we already established I have
a large cock."3

I grit my teeth. "No, dumbass. Jacob. Your ex-girlfriend whose
engagement ring is sitting at your parent's house."

He shakes his head. "It's not." He reaches into his pocket. "I have it
right here."2

"Oh my God. You took it to the bar with you? What if you would have lost
it? You should have seen yourself last night."
He waves me off. "Don't worry. I keep it in a safe place."

I watch as he pulls out a tattered photo and unfolds it on the table. He
points down to the shiny diamond in triumph. "See. Safe."

My eyes begin to well up when I see the photo. I reach for it and he
pulls it back.

I raise an eyebrow. "What? I can't see it?"

He holds it against his chest and takes a breath. "Bishop, this is the
only one I have. It's been with me through some pretty fucked up shit.
Be gentle with it."

I take the photo carefully from his hand and immediately one of those
tears falls. "This is that day."

He nods. "Yeah, it's not the only picture I have but it's the last one
with us all together. I keep it with me at all times. To remember how it
used to be—how it should be now."

I reach my hand over and place it on top of his. "I've been down that
road, Christian. I know you want to blame yourself for what happened to
Blake, but it was an accident."

He drops his head into his hands and lets out a sigh. "Maybe if we
wouldn't have been celebrating so much after winning that damn race." He
looks up at me, his gaze burning with intensity. "I should have been
able to grab him. I shouldn't have been that fucked up..."1

"Hey, we all were. We were dumb kids doing reckless things. Something
bad was bound to happen."

His expression darkens. "Not to him. He was a good person, he was going
to make something with his life. Not have it taken away at seventeen
before it had even begun."

I continue to hold his hand in silence. There's no words that can be
spoken to make what happened to my brother okay. We both know that. At
least after it happened we still had each other. I had Walker and he had
Jacob—and me. Regardless of how much I love Walker, Christian always had me
stuck in a place of doubt. I always wondered what it would be like if
there was no Walker or Jacob. Would he feel the same?

I brush that feeling aside as the bell rings signaling a customer is
downstairs.

"Shit," I say, pulling my hair into a ponytail. "My appointment must be
early. Can you go down and stall so I can get dressed?"

"Sure," he says, reaching for the picture and tucking it back in his
wallet.

I hurry into my bedroom as Christian takes the stares down to the shop.
Quickly throwing on a pair of torn jeans and a black tank I run mascara
over my lashes and dust on some blush for color. Five minutes later I
run down the stairs and am faced with something I didn't expect. Jacob
is leaning against the counter, batting her eyes at Christian.2

"Well, isn't this a nice surprise," I say with heavy sarcasm. I lean
into her ear on my way past. "Missing something?"

She glares at me and turns to Christian. "You told her?"

Before he can open his mouth, I answer for him. "I peeled him off the
bar at The Watering Hole last night. Just like old times. He spends one
day with you and he's already spiraling."2

Jacob crosses her arms. "You have no idea what you're talking about."

"Oh, I think I do," I sneer, stepping closer. "You think you can just
show up two years later and act like everything is fucking peachy? You
can't throw people away like that and expect them to accept it." I shoot
a look to Christian. "Even if they're dumb enough to fall for it."1

Christian holds his hands up. "Okay, that's enough you two." He reaches into
his pocket and pulls out her ring. "I think this is what you came for."

Her eyes light up when she sees the over-sized sparkler. "Oh, I was so
worried. Johnny would flip his shit if he noticed it was missing."6

She slides it back onto her perfectly manicured finger and sighs.

"So that's it then? Thanks for the bang, but now I need to get back to
my husband?"3

"Bishop," Christian warns.

I shrug. "What? Can't we just cut out all the bullshit. This is exactly
what this is. She's bored and you're some dangerous felon now that she
can live out her deepest bad girl fantasies with." 2

Jacob scoffs. "That's not what this is at all. We love each other."1

My face scrunches up in disgust as I turn to Christian. "You still love her?"

He nods. Jacob smiles at me like it's something she should be proud of.

"And you love him, too?"

"Of course I do. I'll always love him."1

"But you're not going to leave Johnny for him."

Christian grips the back of his neck, clearly uncomfortable with the line of
questioning.

"I—I don't know. This all happened so fast."

I roll my eyes. "That's what I thought." I turn away from them and start
to flick on the lights. "I don't know about you two but I have work to
do. Take your drama somewhere else."

Christian steps over and grabs my arm. "I'd still like to talk to you. This
morning was, well it was nice."

I glance over at Jacob and then back to him. "You can come by later if
you want. But don't bring her with you."

I say the last part overly loud and she glares at me.

"Okay," he says in a small voice. "I can do that."

Christian walks over and places his hand on the small of Jacob's back and
leads her out of the door. I watch them from the window, clearly arguing
on the sidewalk. Not a good idea. We live in small town and the chances
of them being seen together getting back to Johnny is great.

I'm not surprised she picked him in the first place. He was always
trying to come in between her and Christian and the many times that they
broke up, he sometimes did. Jacob was always looking for a way out of
this town. A better life that only Johnny could give. He's currently in
his second year of med school and is away a lot.

A girl like Jacob needs constant attention to feel important. That would
explain why when Christian got in trouble, waiting for him was out of the
question. I can only hope that he's smart enough to realize that. He
never did when we were kids, but there's always hope people can change.
I hope he did.







Chapter 9 l Love Robbery

Christian

Present Day...

I make it to the shop only five minutes late.  This isn't actually
anything new for me, so it won't raise any eyebrows.  I will, however,
have to explain why I missed dinner last night and never came home. 
Even though I'm twenty-three, I still feel like a child living next door
to my parents.  I need my own place.  I wish I could get a decent job to
facilitate that.  All the money we made is already spoken for.  I'm just
waiting for the right time to make the drop.5

            I'm  finishing up detailing Mrs. Jensen's Lincoln when I see
my dad waving me into his office through the glass window.  With a sigh,
I drop my rag and walk over.

            When I step in his office, he's pacing behind his desk. 
Never a good sign.  

            "What's up?"

            His eyes meet mine and I already regret this conversation.

            "Is there a reason you didn't show up for dinner last night?"

            I cross my arms and lean in the doorway.  "I got busy."1

            He laughs once.  "Busy, huh?  Your mother was really looking
forward to you coming.  I know you're right next door but she would like
it of you spent some more time with the family."

            This causes me to laugh.  "Why?  So you can keep an eye on
me?"

            "No," he says defensively.   "We do like to see you from
time to time.  Working with you and spending quality time are two
different things."

            "So quality time for you involves sitting in awkward silence
over a meal?  Sorry, I had other plans."3

            I turn to walk out of the room and he stops me with his voice.

            "Hey, I'm not finished yet."

            I pause, not turning around.  "Well, I got work to do."

            "That can wait.  Sit down and close the door."

            He uses his authoritative dad tone which hardly ever comes
out, so I concede.  I sit in the chair across from his desk and fold my
hands in my lap.  "I'm all ears."1

            He rolls his eyes.  "Why do you always have to be such a
smartass."  With a sigh, he takes a seat as well.  "I got a call from
Phil this morning saying that you closed the bar down last night.  You
know you're not supposed to be in there until you complete your classes."

            One of the many draw backs of living in a small town. 
Everyone is always in your fucking business.

            "I know.  I only have two left."

            "So, don't mess up now.  You lose your temper and get in a
fight you'll be thrown right back in prison.  Is that what you want?"3

            I grit my teeth.  "You know it's not."

            He leans back in his chair and crosses his arms over his
chest, looking me over.  "I know I said you and Jacob had a history, but
I didn't mean you should try to start things up with her again."

            I can't hold my barely contained rage in anymore.  I stand
up from my chair.  "I'm done with this conversation.  What I choose to
do with my life, is my choice."
"You're right.  It is your choice.  I'm trying to make sure
you choose the right ones."

            I throw my arms out.  "And what's that's supposed to mean?"

            "Every time you're with her you start acting like an
asshole.  It's like that girl takes every rational part of your brain
and scrambles it so you can't think clearly.  You have a chance to make
your life better now.  Don't waste it over some girl who obviously
doesn't care about what happens to you."7

            There really is no response to that.  It's true that Jacob
hasn't always been the best girlfriend, but I have to believe that her
intentions, for the most part, come from a place of love.  She wouldn't
keep coming back if she didn't love me.6

            I nod tersely and turn for the door again.  "Good talk,
dad.  I can always count on you to be on my side."2

            Without another word, I slam the door behind me.  So much
for quality time.



            Bella's shop closes at eight so I arrive a little before. 
She's in the back cleaning up her supplies when I stroll through the
front door.  She must have changed at some point, because he hair is
curled in ringlets down her back and the red lipstick she has on matches
her halter top.  She looks like a fifties pin-up model.

            "I hear you walking around back there," Bella calls to me
over her shoulder.  She gives me a quick smile.  "I'm almost finished
and then we can talk."

            I walk around the counter to the back and take a seat in one
of her chairs.  I grip the handrails with a grin.  "Have time for one
more?"

            She raises and eyebrow.  "You want a new tat?"

            I shrug.  "I don't know.  It's something I've been thinking
about lately."

            Bella leans back on her stool and surveys my body.  "What did
you have in mind?"  Her hand travels down my arm that I have almost
completely covered.  "You don't have much room left."

            I grab her wrist and flip it over.   My fingers trail along
the tattoo we all share.   "I want to get one that means something."

            She watches me trace the edges of her tattoo and sadness
flashes in her eyes.  "Walker was so excited when he got that tattoo gun."

            I laugh, removing my hand from her.  "Yeah, I was pretty
fucking nervous to let him at me with that thing.  I turn my own wrist
over.  "He did a good job though.  It's still my favorite."

            Bella appears thoughtful for a moment before she speaks. 
"Why didn't you ever do it?"

            My eyebrows pull in.  "Do what?"

            "Tattooing, I mean.  You were always the best artist out of
all of us.  I bet you'd be really good at it."4

            My lips purse.  "I don't know..."

            She shoves me in the arm.  "Come on.  You did a pretty good
job on Blake."

            I laugh again.  Blake was too nervous for Walker to do his
tattoo, so he made me do it.  Why he trusted me more I'll never know.

            "I need to do something.  My dad is driving me fucking
crazy."  I sit up straighter and run my hand along my head roughly.  "He
thinks Jacob is a bad idea."


Story continues below

            Bella lets out a dark chuckle.  "Yeah, when is Jacob a good
idea?  You honestly think she lost sleep while you were gone?  No, she
shacked up with Johnny the moment you left and hasn't looked back.  Now
for some reason she wants to play with you again."  She leans forward
and meets my eyes.  "Because you let her."1

            "I love her..."2

            "Oh, you want to love her.  I don't know why, but you've
spent your entire relationship trying to please her.  It's not supposed
to be like that."  She takes a shaky breath.  "It wasn't like that with
Walker.  He never made me feel like I came second and he always made
sure that I felt safe.  You deserve that too."3

            I turn my head and look over her shoulder.  At this point
I'm not sure what I deserve.  It's true that Jacob has done a lot of
shitty things to me, but what can I expect when I haven't exactly been
living straight.

            I pat her leg.  "Okay, Bishop.  I hear you."

            She slaps with a rag.  "I hope so.  You're the most stubborn
man I've ever met."

            I smile, but a nagging feeling keeps pulling at me.  "You
still mad at me?"

            She gives me a hard look and crosses her arms.  "I'm furious
with you, but as mad as that is, I miss you more.  Having you here makes
everything seem less broken."3

            When it looks like she's about to cry, I pull her over to me
and wrap my arms around her.  She has no idea what a relief it is to
hear her say that.  I can lose a lot of things, but I can't lose Bella.



            Taking a jog through the neighborhood the next morning seems
like a good idea.  My level of physical activity has been lacking since
I got out and I can already feel myself losing mass.  I need to find a
gym.  Maybe it can help with some of other frustrations as well?

            As soon as the thought leaves my mind, a blonde ponytail
comes jogging around the corner.  Jacob smiles warmly at first and then
she recognizes me.  She pulls her earbuds out and gets a concerned look
on her face.

            "Christian," she breathes.

            I stop in my tracks, resting my hands on my hips.  "Why
didn't you tell me?"

            She looks taken aback.  "Tell you what?"

            I throw my arms up and let them fall heavily at my sides. 
"Johnny.  Why him?"

            Jacob shuffles on her feet, looking up and down the sidewalk
before turning back to me.  

            "I don't know what you want me to say.  I did what I thought
felt right."

            "And now?"

            "Now what?" she asks, a slight edge to her voice.

            I grit my teeth.  She is so frustrating sometimes.  Well,
it's actually most of the time, but right she's really pissing me the
fuck off.

            "Does is still feel right?  You want to marry that douchebag?"

            She crosses her arms.  "He did ask?"3

            I laugh once.  "Oh, you wanted a proposal Jacob?"  I take a
step closer, invading her space.  "When was I supposed to so that, huh? 
After I buried my best friend or before I went to prison.  Cause you
see, babe, things haven't exactly been falling into place for me."

            She cranes her neck back to look up at me.  "And whose fault
is that?  Every choice you made was yours alone.  I tried to get you to
go to college with me, be something other than some wannabe thug growing
up in suburbia.  It's exciting when we're young, but what's it got to
take to get you to realize that's no way to live your life."3

            I place my hand on the side of her face and lean my forehead
to hers and whisper, "I'm trying to make up for that."

            Her hand grips my wrist and I can see the struggle in her
eyes.  "He'll never mean to me what you do.  I know that may be hard to
believe considering my track record with you, but you're always the one
that I want."  She sighs, dropping her hand.  "I just don't know how to
be with you now."3

            We stare at each other for a moment, letting everything sink
in.  Jacob is right.  No matter how much time passes we are still this
entity that can't be denied.  Fucked up, yes.  Completely irrational,
hell yes.  But wrong?  I'm not so sure.



















Chapter 10 l Smoke Clouds

Christian

(Fall 2012) 6 years earlier...

            The first day of school is always the same.  Walker, Blake
and I meet up to for a little pregame before we head back to the halls
for another year.  Our last year.

            We pass around a joint outside of Blake's garage while we
wait for Bella to finish getting ready.  Apparently now that she's a
sophomore she needs an extra hour to primp herself before we go
basically anywhere.  It's either that or her new relationship with
Walker has made her more aware of the fact that she's actually a girl.  

            I take a large hit and pass it back to Walker.  "So, we need
to come up with some sort of game plan now that school is back in
session.  Everyone left the lake last weekend and I don't think it's a
good idea to impede on someone else's territory."1

            Walker shrugs.  "Maybe we can work together?"

            Blake laughs.  "That's not how it works, dude.  If we start
selling at school and Robby finds out, he'll be pissed.  And by pissed,
I mean he'll kill us."

            Robby Marker is the resident dealer for all things illegal
at our school.  If you need pot, call Robby.  If you need an unmarked
gun, guess what? —call Robby.  This may seem extreme considering we live
in small, very safe town, but just outside the lines of New Haven is a
very different world.  One that none of us should be involved in.

            "Okay," I say, taking back the joint.  "I guess we had our
fun and now we should just call it a day.  Retire from the game at the
ripe, old age of seventeen.  No harm, no foul."

            Two pairs of eyes are now staring at me in question.

            "What?  You want to be career criminals now?  I thought this
was just for the summer."

            Walker runs his hand through his hair, his features
nervous.  "We were talking, Blake and I, and we were thinking that
maybe we could do it a little longer?"

            The fact that they were discussing this behind my is really
fucking pissing me off.  We started this together, we should make
decisions together.  Plain and simple.1

            I turn to Blake with a hardened expression.  "So you two
took it upon yourself to decide how far we are going to take this.  If
fucking Jacob finds out, she'll leave me for sure."2

            "Bella, too," Walker chimes in.  "Don't you think I have
something to lose as well."

            I throw my arms up.  "So why do it?  Why take the risk?"1

            Blake slings his arm over my shoulder and I glare at him. 
"Because, my dear friend.  It's easy money.  We only have to keep doing
it for five, six months' tops and then we can walk away be set for
whatever we need."

            I let out a disgruntled sigh.  "Let me think about it, okay?"

            Blake releases me and pats me on the back.  "That's my
dude.  See, everything will be golden."

            I roll my eyes.  Golden is far from what this shit show is
about to be.



            I meet Jacob at her locker every morning.  I can't take her
to school because I have wrestling practice before homeroom.  She
usually catches a ride with one of her friends, but today it appears
someone else decided to make sure she made it to school on time.   I
immediately see red when I spot her walking side by side with Johnny
Tate.  She smiles when she sees me and turns to Johnny and says
something in his ear.  I clench my fist.
  "Hey, baby," she says, stopping in front of me and planting
a kiss on my lips.  I don't kiss her back.

            She shoots me a look.  "What's your problem?"

            I continue to glare at Johnny until he's out of sight.  "Did
he give you a ride today?"

            She twirls a stand of hair around her finger, leaning
against my locker.  "Well, he lives like right down the road from me."

            "So?"

            "So, it was convenient."2

            "Convenient, huh," I mutter under my breath.

            I grab my anatomy book and slam my locker shut.  Jacob
laughs and pinches the side of my face.  "Aww, baby.  Are you jealous?"

            I jerk away from her and take off down the hall.

            "Christian, don't walk away," she calls after.  "You're acting
like a dick."

            This stops me in my tracks.  I take forceful steps back to
her and stop directly in her face.

            "I'm a dick?  How would you like if I had some bitch in my
car?  You want me giving random girls rides?"

            She shakes her head.

            "So why is it okay if you do it?"

            Her eyes widen and she tries to take a step back, but we're
too close to the lockers.  "It doesn't mean anything," she whispers.

            I laugh once.  "That's your problem, Jacob.  You think you
can do whatever you want and I'm just supposed to be cool about it.  I
let that shit slide at the lake, but I done having you walk around
making me look like a fucking fool."3

            "I'm not—I don't know what you're talking about."

            I tilt my head down to her and speak in a low growl.  "If
you're with me, Jacob, then you're with me.  I don't want you taking
rides from other guys."

            "Okay, I won't," she says quickly.

            She turns to walk away and I grab her arm.  "I'm not
finished yet."

            Her eyes land on me with anger, but she doesn't try to pull
away.

            "This shit with Johnny ends now."

            "There's nothing going on," she cries defensively.

            "And there fucking won't be.  You walk down the hall and
he's coming toward you, you look the other way, do you understand?"

            She nods.

            I shake my head, leaning in closer.  "No, you fucking say it
Jacob."

            The tears are pooling in her eyes, but I don't care right
now.  All I can think about is how that douchebag thinks he can hang out
with my girlfriend without any consequences.  I'll deal with him next.1

            "I'm waiting."

            She struggles to hold it together, but manages to get the
words out.  "I understand."

            I release her arm and she walks away from me quickly.  As
soon as I see disappear around the corner, I know I was too harsh.  But
it's too late to take it back now.

            Later at lunch, I don't see her in the cafeteria.  Walker
and Blake are having a particularly heated conversation about the game
this weekend and don't seem to notice anything else.  I toss my fork
down to my plate and let out a deep sigh.  Walker finally looks up at me
and grins.2

            "What's up?"

            I lean across the table at him.  "Have you seen Jacob?  She
should have been here by now."

            His face falls a little.  "Oh, yeah.  That.  Well, she was
crying in Bio this morning.  I thought you knew."

            I slam my fist on the table.  "No, I didn't fucking know. 
Why was she crying?"1

            He shrugs.  "I don't know.  She wouldn't even talk to me."

            I stand up from my seat and scan the large room for her. 
The loud chatter makes it impossible to distinguish her voice from
anyone else's.  That's when I spot her.  She's walking towards me
carrying a can of Diet Coke.

            I walk over to her and place my hands on her arms, speaking
in her ear.  "You okay?"

            "I'm fine," she says, shouldering past me.  She takes her
usual seat beside mine and I raise an eyebrow.

            I scratch my head, but retake my seat, turning towards her. 
She opens her soda and takes a small sip.

            "You hungry?" I ask.

            "Nope."

            "You sure?  You should probably eat before cheerleading
practice tonight."

            She keeps her eyes focused on the can rested between her
hands.  "I will.  Later."

            I brush her hair back and kiss her cheek.  "I'm sorry."

            She looks over at me but doesn't say anything.

            "Jacob, please say something," I whisper.  I can feel Blake
and Walker watching, but I don't care.

            "Okay," she whispers back.

            I shake my head.  "You're not okay."  I take her hand in
mine and rub small circles in her palm.  "I shouldn't have acted like
that this morning.  I just hate that guy."

            She narrows her eyes at me.  "It doesn't mean I would ever
do anything with him.  Don't you trust me?"3

            That's a loaded question and one that I must answer
quickly.  In the many times that we broke up, both of us have messed
around with other people.  Her list includes Johnny, which in my
opinion, makes him now off-limits in terms of friendship or basically
anything.1

            "Yes, of course I do."

            "Then start acting like it," she shoots backs.

            I grab both sides of her face and kiss her softly.  "I love
you."

            It takes her a minute, but she finally smiles and kisses me
back.  "I love you, too."

            "Aww," Walker croons from across the table.  "True love does
exist."

            I throw my banana at him and he catches it before it hits
him in the face.  He proceeds to peel it and take a large bite. 
"Thanks, man."

            Blake rolls his eyes.  "If you two are done, I have an
announcement to make."

            I place my hand on Jacob's knee and face him.  "Okay, let's
hear it."

            Blake clasps his hands together.  "Bella will be sixteen in
two weeks and I think we should have a surprise party for her."

            Jacob claps her hand together in delight.  "I love surprise
parties.  I can help."

            Walker and I exchange a look.  Jacob is not exactly Bella's
favorite person, but she looks so happy to help I don't have the heart
to tell her she can't. I kiss the side of her head instead.

            "That would be great, baby."

            Jacob smiles triumphantly and Walker grins.

            "Okay, it's settled.  We'll all meet at the garage later and
come up with a game plan."  Blake takes a drink of soda and smiles to
himself.  "This party will be epic.







Chapter 11 l Bittersweet Sixteen

 Bella

(Fall 2012) 5 years earlier...

            The guys were acting strange all week.  Now I know why.  I'm
currently riding in the back of Walker's jeep—blindfolded.  Some may
find this kinda kinky, but my brother and Christian and in the front seat. 
They said it's a surprise and didn't trust me to keep my eyes closed.

            I feel a hand on my knee and I jump.  Walker's laugh fills
the backseat and I smile.  "Easy, babe.  I was just going to tell you
that we're almost there."

            "Is this really necessary?"  I complain, reaching for the
fabric covering my eyes.

            "Yes!" Christian and Blake call from the front.

            Walker, I assume, readjusts the blindfold and kisses my
lips once—definitely Walker.

            I sigh as the vehicle continues forward and sways slightly,
crunching on gravel.  I know where we are.2

            The movement stops and a series of doors open at once.  I
take Walker's hand and he leads me blindly along.  The dew from the
grass squishes between my toes through my flip flops until he stops. 
"Okay, open your eyes."

            The blindfold is removed and everyone shouts, "Happy
Birthday!"

            I smile wide as I take in all of the people gathered at
Walker's cabin.  It was the perfect set-up really.  All of the
vacationers are gone for the season, so it only leaves the residents who
come up on the weekends.  Not a lot of witnesses to bust a high school
party that will most likely get out of control.

            Christian comes up behind me and puts his arm around my neck,
kissing the side of my head.

            "You like your surprise, Bishop?"

            I tilt my head back to look at him.  "I love it."

            He smiles down at me and I get a weird shuffling in my
stomach.  Christian is my best friend, but even I can't deny how beautiful
his face is.1

            Jacob squeals and pulls me forward.   "Oh, you like it?  I
thought you would."  She continues to drag me down the yard to a group
of tables set up.  "I had purple cupcakes made for you," she turns to
me, pausing for a moment.  "Purple is your favorite, right?"

            I nod, and she continues.  "Okay, good.  And I have several
flavors of Jell-O shots, incase you don't want beer."  She continues to
describe each item of the table as if she's on a game show.  I have to
admit, it was really nice of Jacob to do so much for my birthday.  I had
always thought she didn't really like me.  That she only tolerated me
because of Christian.2

            She clasps her hands together and smiles.  "So, what do you
think?  It's perfect, right?"

            "Yes, Jacob.  It's pretty perfect."

            She pours me a shot from a bottle of birthday cake flavored
vodka and hands it to me in toast.  "To turning sixteen.  May it be your
best year yet."

            I tilt it back and close my eyes as the burning liquid makes
its way to my stomach.  It sure doesn't taste like a birthday cake.  I
try to make a wish, but come up short.   It feels like I already have
everything I want, so what do I wish for?4



            There's a lot of people at the party that I don't really
know.  My guess is that Jacob took it upon herself to fluff the guest
list so she could have fun too.  It doesn't matter to me though.  I'm
currently standing in front of Walker with his arms around me.  He pulls
my back flush against his chest and whispers in my ear.
   "I want to tell you something, Bella."

            My stomach immediately begins to stir with excited nerves
and I turn around to face him.  I place my hands on his waist.

            "What's that?"

            He stares down in my eyes for so long I find myself
wondering if he is going to say anything at all.  And then he does.

            "I love you."

            At first, it takes a minute for me to process what he said. 
Love?  I was just getting used to the idea of having a boyfriend, how do
I know if I love him?  Lucky for me, I've watched enough romantic movies
to know that if I don't say it back, regardless if I mean it or not, he
will be hurt.  The last thing I ever want to do is hurt Walker.

            I kiss him once.  "I love you, too."

            The way he smiles back at me melts my soul.  I can see it in
his eyes and all over his face.  He truly believes that we are supposed
to be together.  I wrap my arms around his neck and hug him tightly. 
When I open my eyes, I look over his shoulder and spot Christian and Jacob
down by the dock.  They are clearly fighting.  Christian is throwing his
arms around and Jacob has that look on her face like she's completely
shocked he's mad about something.  It's always the same.

            Walker pulls back, interrupting my view of their argument. 
He cups the side of my face.

            "I need to go somewhere with Blake for a bit, but I'll be
right back."

            I nod.  For some reason I don't even feel the need to ask
where he's going.  The only thing I can think about is getting to Christian
to see if he's okay.

            Walker kisses me once more and heads over to where Blake is
waiting by the jeep.  I cross my arms and glance around the party. 
Everyone is fairly drunk by now and several groups are formed throughout
the yard.  The funny thing is, I don't feel like I belong to any of
them.  I spend the majority of my time with the guys—and Jacob, and
didn't really attempt to form too many female friendships outside of the
group.1

            I finally see Christian pacing along the border of lake, smoke
from his cigarette curling into the air around him.  With a deep breath,
I walk down through the yard towards him.  He sees me coming and smiles,
but it doesn't reach his eyes.

            "There's the birthday girl."  He pulls me to his side when I
get close enough and I wrap one of my arms around his waist.  "You
having fun?"

            "Yeah," I say with a small smile.

            "Is there something else?" he asks, with a smirk.  He hands
the cigarette to me and I take a drag.  It's not a habit I'd like to
have full-time, but it seems to be something I like to do when I'm
around him.

            I pull my foot out of my flip flop and run it through the
damp grass.   "Walker told me that he loves me."

            Christian's eyes widen when I look up at him.  "Whoa.  Strong
words."

            I roll my eyes.  "You're one to talk.  You tell Jacob you
love her like a million times a day."

            He laughs.  "Yeah, that's different."

            "How's it different?"

            He looks thoughtful for a moment, lighting another cigarette
he pulls from behind his ear.  He takes a drag and looks up through the
yard.  I follow his gaze to Jacob who is giggling and hanging on Johnny.2


Story continues below

            His eyes darken.  In the pale moonlight, they look almost
black.  "Girls like Jacob need to be told that."  He continues to watch
her while he speaks to me.  "They need that gratification that they are
wanted."2

            "So, you don't really love her?"

            His eyes snap to mine and he shakes his head.  "No, I do.  I
love Jacob, but I don't know why."

            I'm surprised by his confession.  I've watched him defend
every shitty thing she does to the death, and now, he's questioning the
depth of his love for her.

            "You think Walker doesn't really love me?"

            He takes a step towards me, his eyebrows pulling in.  "No,
I'm not saying that at all.  I'm sure Walker believes that he does.  How
could he not?"

            I smile a little, but remained slightly confused.  Christian is
talking in circles, which isn't normal for him.  He stares up the yard
again, and this time, Jacob kisses Johnny.  Right in front of everyone.

            Christian grits his teeth, but doesn't move.  He remains eerily
still for the longest time I'm afraid to speak.

            Finally, I reach my hand out to touch him.  "Christian," I say
hesitantly. "She's not worth it."

            He looks down at my hand and then back to her.  "She said
that I'm too obsessed with her.  That I like to control everything she
does and don't let her have her own friends."  He looks back to me. 
"What the fuck is that?  She does whatever she wants and I get mad one
fucking time because is she being a little too friendly with another guy
and suddenly I'm obsessed with her?"1

            I risk a glance back to Jacob and roll my eyes.  I grip
Christian's hand tighter.  "She's only doing this because she knows it
bothers you.  She likes to hurt you and that makes me want to hurt her."

            Christian raises an eyebrow, finally shifting his eyes back to
me.  "I find it cute that you always feel the need to defend me, but
maybe I don't deserve it."

            I laugh.  "Of course you do.  You're the best person I
know."  The look in his eyes causes me to sidestep a little.  "Well, one
of them."

            He bites his lip, scanning my face.  "Walker will never hurt
you."

            When he turns to walk away, I grab his arm.  "What's that
supposed to mean?"

            He keeps his arm tense, but doesn't attempt to move further
away.  "It means exactly what I said.  He won't hurt you.  He'll be
someone you can rely on and he will love you with his whole heart and no
one else.  That's the kind of guy he is."

            I release my grasp on him.  "And what kind of guy are you,
Christian?"

            He sighs.  "Not that."

            I scoff.  "I don't believe that."  I take a step closer. 
"You try to act all hard because that's the way you want people to see
you.  I see different."

            I place my hand on his chest and he squeezes his eyes shut. 
It beats against my palm, causing my own heart rate to climb to alarming
speeds.2

            "Bishop, I won't allow myself to cross a line with you."  He
opens his eyes and they sear into me.  "You're too important."1

            I'm not sure what comes over me, but I shove him back
forcefully.  "That's a crock of shit."

            Hurt flashes in his eyes.  "It's true."

            "That's what all guys say when they want to let you down
easy."1

            Christian's nostrils flare, but he walks over to me and grabs my
waist.  He tilts my chin up so I have to look directly into his eyes. 
"Listen to me, Bishop, because I'm only going to say this once and we
will never speak of it again.  Are you listening?"

            I nod.

            His tongue runs across his bottom lip and he tilts his head
down to me.  "I could kiss you right now and it would be fucking amazing."3

            "Then why don't you?"  My words are breathless and my legs
feel weak.

            "Because if I do, everything changes.  Even if there were no
Walker, no Jacob between us, you and I—would never work."  When I open
my mouth to argue, he keeps going.  "You are the only thing in my life
that makes any sense.  I can't ruin that like I ruin everything else."

            I grip his shirt, trying to pull myself closer.  "You
won't..."

            He shakes his head.  "I know myself.  I know that I love you
too much not to fuck up.  I can take disappointment from everyone else,
but not from you."1

            Christian moves back from me and lights another cigarette.  I
still can't find the will to make my feet move.

            "Be with Walker," he says, turning away from me.  "He's good
for you."

            I watch Christian walk along the lake until he fades into the
darkness.  Tonight, two guys told me that they loved me.  Any other girl
would be over the moon to have that kind of admiration given to them. 
But for me, it breaks my heart.  I know that even if there were no
Walker or no Jacob, it wouldn't change anything.  Christian's heart is
trapped somewhere in his tortured soul and it's going to take more than
someone like to me to fix that.












Chapter 12 l Deadlines

Christian

Present Day...

Jacob's head is rested against my chest as I stare at the ceiling. This
is the second night she stayed and I'm not sure how I feel about it. I
may not have a strong moral code, but even I know this is wrong. If he
was abusive to her, or was also unfaithful, I could feel better about
it. The fact is, Johnny, for the most part, is a decent guy. I mean, I
would really like to knock him the fuck out, but that's just because I
want her too.
7

I've always had trouble sleeping. It didn't just start when I went to
prison, it began much earlier than that. Right after Blake died I had
nightmares almost every single night. I talked to Bella about it once,
but it was too hard. I hated drudging up painful memories for her
because the simple fact was, we couldn't change it. Blake was dead and
we all suffered because of it.1

I lift her arm gently and roll her to her side. She murmurs something
into the pillow and falls right back to sleep. I kiss the side of her
head softly and slip off the bed. After throwing on a pair of
sweatpants, I step outside to the small balcony above the stairs. I
light and cigarette and don't even take a full drag when my phone begins
to ring. I reach into my pocket and smile when I see the display.

"It's after two in the morning this better be good." I speak roughly
into the phone.

"Uh—well, I ..."

My sister Mackenzie's roommate Zander stutters back in response and I
stifle a laugh. I love fucking with him.3

"It's about Mack," he says quickly.

All humor fades from my mind. I clear my throat. "What's going on? I was
just messing with you by the way. You can call me anytime, you know that."

There's a pause. "I know that, but I think she will be upset with me if
she finds out that I did."1

"I don't give a fuck. If something is going on with Mack, I need to know
about it." I take a long drag and let it blow out through my nose. "And
I have a feeling you are about to tell me something I'm not going to
fucking like."1

Another pause.

"Cornell is playing Yale next weekend."

My jaw starts to tick and I flick my ash roughly over the railing.
"Okay, what time is that game?"

Zander lets out a strangled sigh. "Christian, you can't come. Mack said a
condition of your parole is that you can't be within a certain distance
of Sean and you absolutely cannot assault anyone."

I laugh darkly. "Who said anything about assault?" I take another drag
and speak as I exhale. "Next time I'll finish what I started."

"Should we be talking about this over the phone," Zander whispers.

I laugh again. He's so paranoid. I can clearly picture him, hunched down
in a corner somewhere, cupping his hand over the phone as he speaks.

"Let me worry about that," I say, pacing around the small deck. "Listen,
I have shit going on this weekend, important stuff, but next weekend I'm
on the first flight down there. Don't tell her I'm coming either.
There's no condition in my parole about me hurting you."

Zander laughs nervously. "That's you joking again. Ha-ha, Christian."

"Am I?" I leave my tone ominous.

"Uh..."

I laugh loudly this time. "Yes, I'm fucking with you. Get some sleep.
It's late. You're supposed to be smart and shit."1

"Okay, good talking to you Christian." 

"Yeah, you too."

I end the call and lean over the railing. The timing of this bullshit
couldn't be any worse. If I murder Sean, I'll go back to prison and Bella
will really be alone in this world. Then there's Jacob. I don't know
what the fuck is going on there and I know for a fact if I left again I
would come back to her most likely on her second marriage with three
kids and minivan. Well, probably a very nice SUV—a minivan isn't her
style.7

I feel a pair of warm arms circle my waist and I sigh as her lips press
between my shoulder blades.

"You can't sleep?" Jacob asks softly.

I turn around so I can bring her closer to my chest and kiss her
forehead. "It's about Mack."

Her face falls and I can see sympathy in her eyes. Jacob may seem like a
stone cold bitch, but somewhere inside, probably pretty deep, there's
a caring, decent person. 

"I might have to go to Ithaca next week. Straighten some things out."

She nods and lays her head on my chest. Her finger traces along my
bicep. "You're not going to hurt him are you?"

She doesn't look up at me when she asks the question, but I think she
doesn't want to see my lie to her. Yes, if I get the chance I know I
will absolutely hurt him, maybe even worse. Mack was barely sixteen when
he started exploiting her for sex and filling her with drugs and God
knows what else. A sick person like him deserves to suffer, and I want
to be the one who inflicts it on him. That's why I couldn't go easy on
him the first time. When I saw him hurt her with my own eyes that's all
it took for me to lose it. Two years was a small price to pay to protect
someone I love.1

My fingers twist in the strands off Jacob's hair as she continues to hug
herself to me. I can't tell if she's cold standing out here barely
dressed, or that she actually wants to be this close to me. Either way,
I can't complain.

"Johnny will be with me at the service tomorrow night," Jacob says,
breaking the silence.2

I grit my teeth, but don't respond. Anything I can think to say right
now will piss her off and we're having such a nice evening together.
God, I sound like a pussy. What is happening to me?

I swallow down my hatred. "I expected that."

She looks up at me with her bright, blue eyes. "Christian, I don't know what
this means. You and me. I know we still have a lot of things to work
out, but I need time." She moves back and crosses her arms, putting some
distance between us. "I meant what I said. I love you and I want to be
with you, but I've already created a life for myself. One that I'm not
sure I can give up."5

Her words hurt worse than when Bella punched me in throat. Every time I
think I'm getting somewhere with her, she pushes me farther away. One
thing's for sure, I can't go on like this forever.

I blow out a quick breath and lean back on the railing. "So, when your
fiancé is on forty-eight hour shifts, you can share my bed with me, but
when he comes home, you act like the dotting fiancé again?

She shakes her head. "No, I don't want it to be like that. I just—I just
don't know how to hurt him."

I laugh once. "But you can hurt me?"

"You can handle it."7

This causes me to become angry. I push off the railing and take a step
towards her. "Handle it? You think I like sneaking around with you when
all I want is for things to be like they used to be. I want you to be
my girl. I want you to come home to me everyday, not sneak in my
bedroom when the coast is clear."

She reaches for me but I grab her hand and push her back. "No, I think
you need to go."1

The shock on her face surprises me. This is something she should have
seen coming.

She wraps my long hoodie around her and turns her head. I think she
doesn't want me to see her cry, but I hate to break it to her, I've seen
in enough times to have it play on a loop in my head.

Usually, this about the time I comfort her. I tell her that I love her
and that everything is going to be okay and all that bullshit. But I
don't. I stand there motionless and watch her make a decision. 

She sniffs once, looking up at me. "I know there's going to come a time
when you're not going to be there. I know that one day I'm going to push
you too far and I'll never get you back." Her voice starts to break, but
she continues. "And I'm terrified for that day." She wipes a tear from
her eye. "But what scares me the most is waking up one morning like
Bella. Finding out that the person I love the most in this entire world
is gone and there is nothing I can do about it." 2

I shake my head. "Nothing is going to happen to me." 

She lets out a strangled sob. "Don't you think Walker went to bed every
night thinking the same thing? I can be all in with you and then lose
you like that." She pulls her hands into her chest, shaking with sobs
now. "This is not the life that I pictured for us. I know that I was
hard on you, but I only wanted what was best for you. I'm not strong
like Bella. I can't handle it."

The urge to hug her is too much and I bring her back to my chest. She
squeezes me tightly and I rest my chin on the top of her head. 

"It's over, Jacob. It ended with me."

"You promise."

"Yes."

The lie comes easily because it's partially true. I only have a six-inch
scar on my abdomen to remind me. No big deal. There will come a time
when the debts will need settled, but not until we lay our brother to
rest. That was the deal, and so, they're sticking to it.

















Chapter 13 l Until I See You Again

Bella

Present Day...

            I'm wearing a blue dress today.  I think it's customary for
the widow to wear black, but today is for Walker.  He said he loved it
when I wore this color because it brought out my eyes.  Actually, he
told me everything I wore I looked beautiful in.  He was so perfect to
me that his flaws didn't matter.  

            It took a long time for him to be honest with me about what
the guys were doing.  It was several years after Blake died when they
told me.  They downplayed the severity of it, but at least I wasn't in
the dark anymore.  By that point, whether I wanted to leave or not, I
was in too deep.  I loved him so much that if he told me we had to bury
bodies in our basement I would have stayed.  Hell, I would have helped
him dig.  That's what love is.  Doing things you could never even
imagine for the person that you love because you know without a doubt
they would do it for you.

            This is not the first time I visited his grave site, but I'd
be lying if I said I didn't feel guilty for not coming more often.  I
can't feel him here.  At home, he's everywhere.  He's in every room,
every smell, every sound—but here, it's just a cold, slab of granite
with his name on it.2

            I pull a tissue out of my bag so I don't ruin my make-up
before the memorial.  If I thought the funeral was tough, this will be
worse.  It will be the last time everyone will be thinking about him at
the same time.  Except for me.  Thinking about Walker has become a
full-time job.  He haunts every corner of my mind no matter what time of
day or what I'm doing.

            "I made up with Christian," I say, my voice cutting through the
silence.  "It was hard, but I think I needed to.  I know how much he
loved you and I know how much he wanted to be here.  I tried so hard to
stay strong and do this on my own, but I can't.  I need him."

            The tears are already falling too fast to stop them and I
wipe under my eyes.  "I want you to know that every moment I spent with
you is something I cherished. I loved you every single second of those
five years with my entire heart.  I never thought I could physically
hurt from missing someone so much, but I do."  I laugh bitterly through
my tears.  "I would give anything to have walk through the door one more
time.  I would hug you a little bit longer and I'd beg you to take me
with you."

            My body racks with sobs, blinding my vision.  "I would have
saved every voicemail you ever left me so I could hear your voice for
longer than just a few seconds.  I would have done so many things
differently because I had no idea how short forever was going to be.  I
need more time."

            I drop to my knees, disregarding the dampness of the grass
or the stocking on my legs and lay my head on the cold stone.  My tears
roll down my cheeks and I close my eyes.  "I need more time," I whisper.

            For the first time since he left, I can feel him.



Thankfully, I had an extra pair of sheer stocking in my dresser. 
Showing up with grass stains may have raised a few eyebrows.  I'm just
finishing up my make-up when I spot my wedding band on my dresser.  I
took it off last week in an attempt to put some distance between me and
my grief.  How long does it take to move on from something like this
when you've only had seven months to process it?  At this rate, I don't
think I ever will.  I slide it back in place and make my way downstairs.3

            I ride to the church with my parents.  They are a big
comfort to me.  They know firsthand how to cope with loss.  When we pull
into the parking lot, Christian is leaning against his car smoking a
cigarette.  For some reason I smile.
  I get out of the car and walk to him, noticing he's wearing
his court clothes.  Tie and all.

            "You clean up real nice," I say, patting his shoulder.

            My attempt at casual conversation isn't lost on him.  He
gives a sad smile back.  "Thank you, Bishop."  He nods to my dress. 
"Walker would have lost his mind if he saw you in that.  You look
beautiful."

            I let my fingers run across the silky fabric and look to the
ground.  "Well, I wanted to do something to let him know I was thinking
about him."

            Christian grabs my chin suddenly and looks me dead in the eyes. 
"He always knows.  You know that, right?"

            All I can do is nod.  I'm barely holding it together as it is.

            "I guess we better get in there," he says, snubbing his butt
out on the ground and kicking it in under his car.   He reaches in his
pocket and pulls out a pack of mints and offers one to me.

            I take it, because I don't know what else to do in this
moment.  I don't want to go in there.  Walker isn't here.  He's buried
three miles up the road.

            Christian shoves his hands in his pockets and nods to the large
double doors.

            "Your parents are headed inside.  Should we go in?"

            I look around at the packed parking lot and panic strikes
me.  There's so many people here.  When we had the funeral I was so
beside myself we only allowed close family to attend.  Another large
factor was that it didn't feel right saying our final goodbyes if Christian
couldn't be there.

            "I guess we should."

            I take an unsteady step towards the church and I feel
Christian's hand reach for mine.  I look down at our intertwined fingers and
back up to his face.

            "Is this okay?"

            I fight the tears for the hundredth time today, and with my
voice completely broken, I whisper, "Don't let go."

            All eyes drift to us as we walk through the doors.  I have
been preparing myself for this moment for so long I almost don't know
how to feel right now.  What I do know, is that each step that I take it
easier because I know Christian is beside me.

            Jacob and Johnny are off in the corner chatting with several
of Walker's classmates and I notice Christian not even glance in her
direction.  I am hoping they are both mature enough not to cause a scene
here.  We take our seats in the front pew, next to my parents and
Walker's dad.  His mother passed away when he was very young, so none of
even got the chance to meet her.

            My father eyes Christian and the hand that is connected to
mine.  I never know how to feel about how my father is to Christian.  I can
never figure out if he likes him or not.  My mom, on the other hand,
loves him.  He has a certain charisma that must only affect the ladies.2

            Walker's dad, Todd, leans down to me.  "You doing okay,
sweetheart?  You look pretty."

            I smile back, but it's incredibly difficult when all I want
to do is scream.  "Thank you.  I'm doing the best that I can."

            He reaches over and shakes Christian's hand.  "Good to see you,
son.  You need to come by soon.  Catch up under—well, better
circumstances."

            Christian nods.  "Yes, sir.  That would be nice."

            The quiet chatter dies down as the pastor takes the podium. 
All ceremonies begin the same, with same words of comfort, the same
hymns are sung, and same sentiment no matter who has passed.  I drown
most of it out until it gets to the part where friends and family are
asked to speak.  I'm still on the fence about it.  I don't know if I can.

            Surprisingly, Christian stands first.  He leans down and kisses
my cheek before releasing my hand and walking to the podium.  He reaches
for something in his jacket pocket and then thinks better of it, closing
the button and gripping the sides of the podium.

            "I had a speech prepared for probably the first time in my
life.  I had a lot of time to think about what I wanted to say about my
best friend.  The problem was I could never come up with the words to
describe him in the way that he deserved."  He smiles, and then shrugs. 
"You had to know him.  He was always happy.  If he was ever having a bad
day, you would never know it.  He made sure the ones he loved came
first, no matter what he had going on."

            Christian pauses and looks to me.  "And there's no one on this
earth that he loved more than Bella.  He loved you and I know that he
would have given up anything to be with you right now."  The struggle
in his voice is coming out more and more.  He clears his throat.  "I
wish everyone could have known him the way we did.  They say only the
good die young," he lets out a bitter laugh.  "Well, if that's true then
He took two of the best.  There's nothing I can say to fill the void
that we have in our hearts, but I can tell you this.  Walker wouldn't
have wanted us to be sad, I know that's not possible, but I can see him
shaking his head up there at everyone crying for him."

            Christian pauses and wipes a rare tear from his eye.  "And I'd
have to tell him to suck it up, because we love him."  He stops and
points to the ceiling.  "I miss you, brother."

            That's when all the remaining composure leaves me.  When
Christian retakes his seat, I sob uncontrollably into his chest.  He doesn't
let go until the last person speaks, and even then, I don't want him
to.  I didn't have the strength to get up there myself, but he already
knows everything I have to say.

            I couldn't eat the dinner and after receiving condolences
from everyone in the entire town, I'm completely wrecked.  I'm currently
sitting on the church steps with my heels kicked off and sitting next to
me.

            Most of the guests have gone by now and only a few close
family linger.  Christian is talking to Walker's dad on the sidewalk in
front of the church.  I like the fact that they can tell stories about
him and smile of his memory.  That's what Walker would have wanted.

            Jacob slips by me, hand in hand with Johnny.  She pauses on
the bottom step, whispering to him.  He kisses her cheek and walks
away.  I raise an eyebrow when she walks up the steps again and sits
beside me.  Her short, fluffy dress bunches around her.

            She keeps her eyes focused forward.  "I know I'm not your
favorite person, but I was around enough to love Walker too.  I love all
of you guys and I hate that this is where we are now."

            I nod, looking over at her as she wipes her eyes.

            "And, I want you to know that even if you don't want it, I'm
here for you."  She reaches over and grabs my hand.  "If it were Christian,
I'm sure you'd do the same for me."1

            I give her hand a squeeze as Christian begins to make his way
over.

            "Thank you, Jacob.  Really."

            Jacob smiles back at me, but then it fades when Christian stops
in front of us.

            "You ready to go?" he asks me.

            I nod, reaching for my discarded heels.   Jacob stands and
smooths out her dress.  She's staring at him, but he's looking at me.

            "I'll give you a ride," Christian says, picking my handbag up
off the step.

            Jacob bites her lip, but still remains silent.  Christian
finally looks over at her and nods.   He grabs my hand, pulling me
forward before muttering over his shoulder, "Thank you for coming."

            I don't turn back to look at her face, but I can only
imagine the shock she must feel for finally coming in second.










Chapter 14 l Fate

Bella

Present Day

When we get back to the shop, Christian comes inside. He hesitates by the
doorway as I lay my bag and keys down on the counter. His warm, brown
eyes are red and tired while he watches me.

"Christian," I say, turning around to face him.

"Yes."

I take a breath. "If I asked you to do something for me, would you think
about it?"2

He smiles. "Bishop, I would do anything you asked me to do. Just say the
word."

"Would you...stay with me tonight? I don't really want to be alone."

He smiles again, walking over to hug me to his side. "That's not a
problem. I'm getting fairly used to your couch. It's quite comfy."

I shake my head. "No, like sleep next to me." I cover my face with my
hands unable to look at him. I feel him try to pry my fingers back.3

"Hey, talk to me. Why are you embarrassed?"

I laugh once. "I just asked you to sleep with me after husband's
memorial. How fucked up is that?"

He finally gets my hands away from my face and brushes my hair behind my
shoulders. "It's not fucked up. I don't like to be alone either.
Especially in times like these."

"So, you'll stay?"

He leans down and kisses my temple. "Of course."

When Christian follows me upstairs, it doesn't feel intimate. I mean, laying
in bed next to another man other than Walker is something I have never
done, but with Christian—I'm not afraid. I'm not nervous or worried that
things will go too far, because I know they won't.1

As we enter my bedroom and he starts to take his clothes off—that's when
I get nervous. I turn away from him and reach into my drawer for a
t-shirt and slip into the bathroom to change. For a guy, I'm sure it's
perfectly normal to just strip naked in front of a girl. It's perfectly
normal for some girls to do it too, but that's not me. The closest I
ever came to seeing Christian naked was when we all went skinny dipping at
the lake. If I hadn't shielded my eyes so much, and the moon was a
little bit brighter, I might have some idea what all the fuss is about.4

I slip the t-shirt over my head after removing my dress and wipe the
make-up from my face. What little that remains is smeared from crying so
much today. My eyes look puffy and my cheeks are blotchy. I'm not sure
why I care so much. It's not like he'll be able to see me in the dark
anyway.1

When I walk back into the room, he's seated on the edge of my bed in
just his boxers, scrolling through his phone. His back is turned to me,
but I can the see the tension in his muscles as he types a message back. 

"Everything okay?" I ask, walking towards the bed.

He sighs, but then turns to me and smiles. "Yeah, it's fine. This is
nothing." He tosses his phone to the chair beside my bed and stands,
stretching his arms above his head. I watch every cut line of his torso
flex with his movement and my stomach flips. Maybe this is a bad idea? 2

Before I can change my mind, I slip under the covers and flick off the
lamp. The tiny window only allows a minimal amount of light into the
room, so I can only hear him moving next to me in the darkness until my
eyes start to adjust.

"Bishop?"

"Yeah?"

"I think I fucked up."

I laugh a little, turning on my side to face him. He mirrors my
movements and leans his head against his hand.

"Why's that?"

He runs the ball of his tongue ring across his top teeth for a moment.
My eyes follow it as it moves along, skimming his lip. 

"I don't think I should have started things up with Jacob."1

I roll my eyes. "That's an understatement."

He chuckles, shaking the bed. "Yeah, I thought you'd say that. But you
know how it is. Once you love someone it's hard to stop."

I close my eyes as a new rush of pain comes over me. I know the feeling
all too well. I feel Christian's hand come over mine.

"I'm sorry. It's bullshit of me to feel bad when you're going through
this."

I shake my head. "No, it's okay. I've had a long time to come terms with
my loss. Yours just keeps getting reopened over and over again. That
would be so much harder."

"You have no idea," he breathes.

I reach my hand over and run my fingertips down the side of his face. He
closes his eyes as I speak. "Christian, I know you think you're a bad
person, but you're not." His eyes open and I keep going before he can
protest. "And she doesn't deserve you. She never did."3

It goes so long before he speaks, I'm afraid he won't—but then he says
something that makes my heart stop altogether. 

"As selfish as it would have been, sometimes I wish I would have kissed
you that night at your birthday party. Maybe it would have saved us all
a lot of heartache."2

My mouth suddenly gets dry. "Why's that?"

"Because if I kissed you, we would have ended up together. Me and Walker
probably would have gotten into a fight, ending our friendship, Blake
would have been forced to choose sides, which means we never would have
entered that derby together, and if we never entered that derby we would
have never won and there would have been no celebration afterwards,
and..."3

I cup my hand over his mouth. "Christian, stop." His eyes narrow slightly
and I remove my hand. "You can't rationalize every bad thing that
happened to us and make it your fault. There's a million moments where
we could have made different choices that could have affected the way
things turned out."

He arches an eyebrow in challenge. "Name one."

I chew on the tip of my thumbnail. All of the choices that come to mind
involve things I don't want to bring up right now. "This is stupid," I
say in frustration, turning to lay on my side.

He laughs. "See, I'm right again."

"You're not right, Christian, I'm just not arguing with you. You must be
pretty self-involved if you honestly believe that you control fate."

It goes silent in the room. I hear him breathing and sighing from time
to time, so I know he's not sleeping.

"I'm sorry. I'm not trying to be a bitch."

The mattress shifts and I feel his arm come around my waist. He kisses
the side of my head. "You're not a bitch."

The warmth of his body pressed against me calms my throbbing heart. It's
been so long since I've be near someone in this way I was afraid I would
never know what it felt like again.

"I just have one question," I ask.

"Hmm, what's that?" he says, his voice tired.

"What makes you think I would have let you kiss me?"

He laughs and his lips brush my throat. "You wouldn't have?"

I smile. "I guess you'll never know."2



The next morning, I get out of bed like I just had a one-night stand. I
pull on a pair of sweatpants and practically run to the kitchen to make
coffee. I didn't schedule any appointments today so I basically have
nothing to do but sit around and feel sorry for myself. In hindsight, I
should have worked today.

Christian strolls around the corner squinting one eye open. "What fucking
time is it? It's still dark outside."

I glance at the clock above the microwave. "A little after six."

He walks over to the table and slumps down in one of the chairs. "You
always get up at the ass crack of dawn?"1

I laugh. "I guess so. I always have a lot of things to do before I open
the shop."

He yawns. "And what time is that?"

"I'm not open today."

His eyes open widen. "Then let's go back to bed."2

My stomach clenches. That's not a sentence I ever expected to come out
of Christian's mouth in regards to me.

"I can't sleep."

Christian groans and runs his hand down his face. "Fuck, I'm sorry. Was I
snoring?"

I shrug. "Just a little."

He stands up and walks over to the cabinet to grab a cup. "I can't help
it. Jacob used to complain all the time." He looks over at me and
laughs. "You're a lot nicer than her though. She used to kick me so hard
in the side I think she bruised some organs."4

I smile back, but the mention of Jacob right now pisses me off for some
reason.

He leans back against the counter after pouring a cup and nods to me.
"So, free day off. What do you want to do with it?"

I raise an eyebrow. "Don't you have work?"

He grabs his throat and lets out a pathetic cough. "I think I'm coming
down with something. Maybe I should call in sick?"1

I shove him in the shoulder and he grins at me. "Your dad's so gonna
fire you."

"Wouldn't be the first time," he says with a wink.

I cross my arms. "Okay, if you want to play sick today I have an idea."

"Should I be scared?"

I smile. "No, it will be fun."



















Chapter 15 l The Cliffs

Christian

(Spring 2013) 5 years earlier...

After a long cold, winter, and the weather starts to get nice again,
there's only one thing to do on the weekends—go to the cliffs. I'm not
sure how the tradition started, or even how it got its name, but there
is a dirt road right off the highway that leads up to Dean's rock. I
also have no idea who Dean is or how he got a rock named after him, but
now everyone just scribbles their name on it when they are drunk.

It's the perfect place for underage drinking if you think about it. The
road that leads up to the cliffs is approximately four miles, and the
clearing at the top is surrounded by large pine trees that obscure the
smoke from our bonfires from view. Plenty of time to get the heads up
and run from the cops. Not that we have or anything.

On this particular Saturday, I'm looking for a fight. Jacob and I have
been officially broken up for three weeks. We are rapidly approaching
our record of twenty-seven days—but who's counting. The difference this
time is that she is hell bent on shoving her new boyfriend in my face.
To be honest, it's kind of unavoidable. Johnny Tate, although not a
close friend, runs in the same circle as us. Sometimes we have separate
parties, but at the end of the night, everyone usually ends up in one
spot. Tonight happens to be ours.1

I'm sitting on the back of Walker's tailgate when the dust from Johnny's
Navigator blazing up the road swirls in the air. Blake grabs my arm
from beside me when he feels me lunge forward.

"Don't do it. She wants you to get mad."

I clench my fist. "I am fucking mad."

He grins and tilts his beer to me. "See, it's working."

I run my hand roughly over my jaw and stare at his vehicle as it comes
to stop. "What is she trying to prove anyway? I mean, she went out with
him before and it didn't last. This is obviously a bullshit relationship."3

"What? Like yours," Blake teases.

I glare at him and jump to the ground. I point my finger at him. "Fuck
you."

He holds his hands up with a laugh. "Hey, I'm not the bad guy here." He
nods to Jacob sauntering over to the kegs. "It's over there, in that
tight little sweater." He bites his knuckle. "Damn! I get it, dude. I
would let her make me suffer too."3

"Shut the fuck up," I mutter, walking away from him. Bella and Walker are
huddled close together over by a cluster of trees. I don't want to
interrupt them if they're having some kind of moment, but I also don't
want to talk to Blake right now when he thinks he's fucking funny.
Thankfully, Bella sees me and waves me over. Walker smiles, of course.

She eyes me with concern. "You okay?"

I laugh bitterly. "I'm great. Jacob's a fucking whore, but other than
that everything is great."

Walker scoffs. "Come on, you're just mad at her. You don't mean that."

I glance over my shoulder and see her clinging to his side. My jaw
ticks. "Right now I do."

Walker punches me in the arm. "Hey, you're a single guy. Take advantage
of it." He hovers his hands over Bella's ears and whispers to her,
"Earmuffs, babe." She rolls her eyes when he pushes his hands down so
she can't hear and leans into me. "There's like fifty hot girls at this
party right now that you could totally have your way with."5
He releases Bella and she shoves him in the chest. "Not funny."

Walker grabs her and plants kisses all over her face. "Nobody is as hot
as you, but you're all mine."

She laughs and tries to pull away from him, but I know she's not really
trying too hard. I'm glad Bella found someone who makes her so happy, but
it also makes me question my own choices. Are a few good days here and
there really worth all this fucking bullshit? I take another look back
to Jacob and I have my answer. Time stands still for me the moment I see
Jacob. I love her that much. I can't explain the pull she has on me,
but I can't break it.

She's standing by herself now, Johnny is surrounded by a group of guys
loudly recounting every event of tonight's game. Even in the pale
moonlight, I can see it in her eyes. She's as miserable as I am but
she's too proud to admit it. Usually after a couple days I make an
attempt to apologize for whatever it is she thinks I did—but this time,
I didn't. I didn't call or text her at all. If she thinks I'm going to
cave first, she has another thing coming.4

Determined to catch a nice buzz, I walk over to the keg and refill my
cup. Jacob comes up beside me and nudges my arm. I don't even flinch.

She sighs. "So, what? We can't even be friends now?"

I laugh darkly. "We are not friends, Jacob. That's not how this works."

"But I miss talking to you. I miss...you."

I keep my eyes away from her and stare directly into the fire burning in
front of us. There's enough people around that nobody can hear what we
are saying, but if she keeps this up the attention will come. Everyone
loves a fight, and me and Jacob, are legends in that department.

I take a sip of my beer. "That's too fucking bad, isn't it?" And that's
when I make my mistake. I look at her. Her eyes fill with tears and she
glances away from me. No matter how much I hate her at any particular
time, I can't hurt her.

With a sigh, I reach for her hand but she pulls away. "No!" She brushes
a tear away angrily. "I'm not the one who messed up."2

I toss my cup to the ground and take a step towards her. "Seriously?
You're here with another fucking guy and you're blaming this on me? I
don't even remember what we are fighting about."

She scoffs. "Of course you don't."

The tone of our voices have attracted the attention I didn't want. With
a quick glance over my shoulder, I see Johnny shooting daggers in my
direction. He nods to two of his friends and starts walking over. I
guess I'm about to get my wish.

Jacob cocks her head to me. "That's your problem, Christian. You do dumb
shit and never want to take accountability for your actions."

I can feel my face getting hotter, and it's not because I'm standing so
close to the flames. I grit my teeth. "Jacob, I don't fucking remember
why you're mad at me. Why don't you tell me so I can fix it?"

She shakes her head. "You should really lay off the pot. Then maybe you
would remember things."2

Nothing is clicking in my head right now and the more I stand here and
argue with her the angrier I'm going to get. I let out a growl and grip
my hair in my hands.

"You're so fucking frustrating! Just tell me what you want."

Johnny makes it to her side and pulls her away from me. "I don't think
you should talk to my girlfriend like that."

Now this guy wants to get involved? Okay, we'll see how this goes.

I laugh. "Dude, she's not your girlfriend."

He gives me an incredulous look and tightens his arm around her waist.
"Um, that's exactly what she is. She's tired of your shit."1

"My shit," I chuckle under my breath. I take a step forward and shove
him in the chest. When he stumbles back, I pull Jacob out of the way.
"You have no idea what you're getting yourself into right now. I suggest
you walk away." By the time I say the last part, I'm inches from his face.

He doesn't look fazed and a circle has begun to form around us. I spot
Blake and Walker out of the corner of my eye, waiting to pounce if shit
starts to get real.

Johnny shoves me back and I can feel the anger trickling all the way to
my fingertips.

"I'm not going to stand here and watch you treat her that way."

"I'll treat her any way I want." I get in his face again. "Because at
the end of the day, she belongs to me."1

That must have been the trigger. No guy can refuse a challenge like
that. He swings and hits me right in the cheek with enough force that my
head flies back—and then it's chaos.

We go hit for hit like we're in a boxing ring, slowly moving our circle
closer to the end of the cliff. When my feet hit the rock, I hear Bella
scream.

"Oh my god! Someone stop them. They're too close to the edge."

Her words don't really register until Johnny lands another brutal hit to
the side of my face. I regain my stance and wrestle him to the ground,
off to the side of emanate death. When I have him down, I pound my fists
into every part of his body I can get to before I feel several pairs of
hands pulling me off.

My chest heaves from exhaustion as I survey around at the stunned faces
who were cheering moments ago. One of the other guys helps Johnny to his
feet as I wipe the blood from my lip. With one last menacing glare, I
turn to walk away.

"This isn't over, Fox," he calls to me as soon as my back is turned.

I laugh to myself, grabbing a beer from some random person on my past. I
tilt it to a silent Jacob, standing off to the side.

"I hope you're happy." I nod down to the torn fabric hanging off my
neck. "This is my favorite fucking shirt."

I don't give her a chance to reply as I tilt back the rest of the beer
and toss the cup into the fire. Everyone parts a path on my way through
and I keep going until I hit the dirt road. I have every intention of
walking all the way home.

Four minutes later, Walker picks me up in his jeep. 

The next morning, Jacob and I get back together.

TO BE CONTINUED…


